Official Journal EN
of the European Union L series
2024/2509 26.9.2024
REGULATION (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE
COUNCIL
of 23 September 2024
on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union
(recast)
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 322(1) thereof, in
conjunction with the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 106a thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments,
Having regard to the opinion of the Court of Auditors (1),
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (2),
Whereas:
(1) A number of amendments are to be made to Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and
of the Council (3). In the interests of clarity and legal certainty, that Regulation should be recast.
(2) This Regulation lays down the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (the ‘budget’) within the
meaning of Article 322 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and does not regulate or
affect the implementation of restrictive measures adopted on the basis of the TFEU and the Treaty on European
Union (TEU), including in the framework of implementation of the budget.
(3) Taking into account the experience gained with the implementation of the financial rules applicable to the budget
and following the adoption of Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 (4), certain targeted amendments
should be made in order to align those financial rules to the new legal framework, adapt them to the needs of
efficient crisis management and enhance the protection of the financial interests of the Union. Furthermore, targeted
simplifications, technical updates and corrections should be made.
(4) Following the adoption of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093, the references to basic acts should be replaced and
the references to Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 (5), to Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/768 (6)
and to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 16 December 2020 on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary
matters and on sound financial management, as well as on new own resources, including a roadmap towards the
introduction of new own resources (7) should be added to the references used throughout this Regulation.
(1) OJ C 466, 24.11.2022, p. 26.
(2) Position of the European Parliament of 14 March 2024 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of
19 September 2024.
(3) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules
applicable to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No 1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU)
No 1303/2013, (EU) No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No 1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and
Decision No 541/2014/EU and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1).
(4) Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 of 17 December 2020 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years
2021 to 2027 (OJ L 433 I, 22.12.2020, p. 11).
(5) Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of own resources of the European Union and
repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom (OJ L 424, 15.12.2020, p. 1).
(6) Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/768 of 30 April 2021 laying down implementing measures for the system of own resources
of the European Union and repealing Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 608/2014 (OJ L 165, 11.5.2021, p. 1.).
(7) OJ L 433 I, 22.12.2020, p. 28.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 1/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(5) In the interest of clarity, all references to repealed Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of
the Council (8) should be replaced by references to Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of
the Council (9).
(6) In the interest of legal certainty, a number of cross-references should be corrected.
(7) It is necessary to better reflect the specific nature and functioning of the provisioning of financial liabilities and of
the budgetary guarantees. Certain definitions and rules on budgetary guarantees, budgetary commitments, legal
commitments, payment appropriations, recipients and publication of information on recipients should therefore be
adjusted. A definition of the constitution phase of the provisioning of financial liabilities should be added.
Additionally, definitions should be updated to reflect in particular amendments to procurement rules and the
introduction of rules on non-financial donations.
(8) In order to enhance transparency on recipients of Union funds which are non-governmental organisations,
a definition of non-governmental organisations should be introduced, providing for criteria to identify them. In
addition, grant applicants should declare their legal status, including whether they are non-governmental
organisations.
(9) A reference to the general regime of conditionality for the protection of the budget laid down in Regulation (EU,
Euratom) 2020/2092 of the European Parliament and of the Council (10) should be inserted in this Regulation.
Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2092 is a cornerstone of the legal framework for the implementation of the budget.
(10) It is essential that in the implementation of the budget, Member States and the Commission ensure compliance with
the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and respect the Union values enshrined in Article 2 TEU.
(11) This Regulation should enable authorising officers, where relevant in accordance with sector-specific rules, to adopt
appropriate measures and take action to protect the budget, for example through suspension of payments, in cases
where the implementation by a Member State of an action financed from Union funds is affected by that Member
State’s non-respect of relevant Union values and fundamental rights.
(12) The fundamental budgetary principles should be maintained. Existing derogations from those principles for specific
areas such as research, external actions and structural funds should be reviewed and simplified as far as possible,
taking into account their continuing relevance, their added value for the budget, and the burden they impose on
stakeholders.
(13) Rules on the carry-over of appropriations should be presented more clearly and a distinction should be made
between automatic and non-automatic carry-overs. The Union institutions concerned should provide information to
the European Parliament and to the Council on both automatic and non-automatic carry-overs.
(14) The carrying-over and use of external assigned revenue for the succeeding programme or action should be allowed
with a view to using such funds efficiently. It should be possible to carry over internal assigned revenue only to the
following financial year, except where this Regulation provides otherwise.
(15) Following the adoption of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093 and the basic acts related thereto, certain rules
related to budgetary principles, in particular as regards cancellation and carry-over, decommitments and making
appropriations corresponding to decommitments available again, laid down in Regulations (EU) 2021/1060 (11) and
(8) Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of individuals
with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ
L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1).
(9) Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection of natural
persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free
movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39).
(10) Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2092 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2020 on a general regime of
conditionality for the protection of the Union budget (OJ L 433 I, 22.12.2020, p. 1).
(11) Regulation (EU) 2021/1060 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 June 2021 laying down common provisions on
the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund Plus, the Cohesion Fund, the Just Transition Fund and the
European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund and financial rules for those and for the Asylum, Migration and Integration
Fund, the Internal Security Fund and the Instrument for Financial Support for Border Management and Visa Policy (OJ L 231,
30.6.2021, p. 159).
2/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(EU) 2021/2116 (12) of the European Parliament and of the Council, should be incorporated into this Regulation.
(16) With regard to internal assigned revenue, the financing of new building projects with the revenue from lettings and
the sale of buildings should be allowed. To that end, such revenue should be considered as internal assigned revenue
which can be carried over until it is fully used.
(17) In the interest of simplification and in order to align better the timing of contributions from Member States with the
corresponding payment needs, all additional financial contributions from Member States to Union’s actions and
programmes, including voluntary contributions, should be subject to the same treatment and be considered as
external assigned revenue.
(18) In order to increase transparency and visibility in the presentation of assigned revenue while maintaining the
substance of the information previously provided, detailed information on the estimated amount of the internal and
external assigned revenue to be received, and the foreseen allocation to the relevant budget lines, should be provided
in an annex, which forms an integral part of the budget. In addition, it is appropriate to clarify the reporting
requirements regarding the implementation of the internal and external assigned revenue in the preceding year. This
will ensure that all information on the implementation of assigned revenue and forecast of assigned revenue to be
received is presented in a clear and accessible manner.
(19) The rules on transfers that are subject to special provisions should be updated to take into account the Solidarity and
Emergency Aid Reserve established pursuant to Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2020/2093. In addition, adjustments
should be made in order to reflect that draft amending budgets are no longer required for the mobilisation of the
Solidarity and Emergency Aid Reserve.
(20) Union institutions should be able to accept any donation made to the Union.
(21) In order to allow a rapid reaction in exceptional circumstances, the Commission should be able to accept in-kind
donations, irrespective of their value, where such donations are made for the purposes of humanitarian aid,
emergency support, civil protection or crisis management aid. In order to ensure appropriate safeguards, the
Commission should only accept such donations where acceptance is in accordance with the principles of sound
financial management and transparency, does not give rise to conflicts of interest, does not harm the image of the
Union and does not harm or risk harming the security or public order of the Union or Member States. The donor
should not be, at the moment of acceptance, in one of the exclusion situations under the early detection and
exclusion system and should not be registered as excluded in the corresponding database. Where the Commission
accepts a donation, the authorising officer responsible should provide information thereon in his or her annual
activity report.
(22) A provision should be introduced to allow for in-kind sponsorship by a legal person of an event or activity for
promotional or corporate social responsibility purposes.
(23) The concept of performance as regards the budget should be clarified. Performance should be linked to the direct
application of the principle of sound financial management. The principle of sound financial management should
also be defined, and a link should be established between objectives set and performance indicators, results and
economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of appropriations. For reasons of legal certainty, while avoiding
conflicts with existing performance frameworks of the different programmes, performance terminology, in
particular output and results, should be defined.
(24) In light of the horizontal gender mainstreaming goal, targets for monitoring climate spending and performance and
expenditure contributing to halting and reversing the decline of biodiversity, specific performance indicators for the
budget should be introduced to track the spending on gender equality, as well as on climate change mitigation and
(12) Regulation (EU) 2021/2116 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2 December 2021 on the financing, management and
monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 (OJ L 435, 6.12.2021, p. 187).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 3/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
adaptation and the protection of biodiversity. Such indicators should be concise and proportionate, avoid
overlapping, be limited in number and not result in excessive administrative burden. They should be based on an
effective, transparent and comprehensive methodology and, where appropriate, widely recognised scientific
evidence. Where appropriate, the data collected in relation to such indicators should be broken down by gender and
should be collected in a way that allows for the aggregation of such data across all relevant programmes.
(25) Considering the importance of addressing climate and environmental challenges and in order to ensure that budget
implementation contributes to the achievement of the European Green Deal as referred to in the communication of
the Commission of 11 December 2019 on the European Green Deal, of the Union’s climate and energy targets and
of climate neutrality by 2050, the concept of performance as regards the budget should be extended to include the
implementation of programmes and activities in a sustainable way, which would not hinder the achievement of the
environmental objectives of climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, the sustainable use and protection
of water and marine resources, the transition to a circular economy, pollution prevention and control and the
protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems.
(26) It is important to promote social rights and fair working and labour conditions, in line with the European Pillar of
Social Rights and Article 9 TFEU. Where feasible and appropriate, the Commission and Member States should
respect relevant applicable national law, Union law, conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and
collective agreements when implementing programmes and activities funded by the budget.
(27) In accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making (13), Union legislation
should be of high quality and should focus on areas where it has the greatest added value for citizens and is as
efficient and effective as possible in delivering the common policy objectives of the Union. Making existing and new
spending programmes and activities entailing significant spending subject to evaluation can help achieve those
objectives.
(28) In order to implement the Commission’s commitment to be digital by default and to foster more efficient and
qualitative controls and audits by increasing the level of assurance while decreasing the cost, it is appropriate to
introduce an explicit reference to the use of digital tools and emerging technologies such as machine learning,
robotic process automation, data-mining and artificial intelligence.
(29) In order to enhance the protection of the budget against irregularities including fraud, corruption, conflicts of
interest and double funding, standardised measures to collect, compare and aggregate information on recipients of
Union funds should be introduced. In particular, in order to effectively prevent, detect, investigate and correct frauds
or remedy irregularities, it is necessary to be able to identify the natural persons that ultimately benefit, directly or
indirectly, from Union funding or the misuse of that funding. The electronic recording and storage of data on
recipients of Union funds, including their beneficial owners as defined in Article 3, point (6), of Directive (EU)
2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council (14), and the regular making of those data available in
a single integrated and interoperable information and monitoring system, including a single data-mining and
risk-scoring tool (single integrated IT system) provided by the Commission should facilitate risk assessment for the
purposes of selection, award, financial management, monitoring, investigation, control and audit and contribute to
effective prevention, detection, correction and follow-up of irregularities including fraud, corruption, conflicts of
interest and double funding. The rules related to the recording, storage, transfer and processing of data should
comply with applicable data protection rules. The single integrated IT system should be developed with a view to
avoiding double reporting and reducing administrative burden for Member States and other implementing entities.
The Commission should act as the controller and be responsible for the development, management and supervision
of the single integrated IT system. Member States, Union investigative, control and audit bodies including the
European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), the Court of Auditors and the European Public Prosecutor’s Office (the ‘EPPO’)
should have access to those data within the exercise of their respective competences. Such access should respect the
principles of necessity and proportionality. Data available through the single integrated IT system should be made
available to the European Parliament and the Council on a case-by-case basis to the extent necessary and
proportionate to the exercise of their respective competences, in the context of the discharge procedure for
the Commission.
(13) OJ L 123, 12.5.2016, p. 1.
(14) Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the
financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing (OJ L 141, 5.6.2015, p. 73).
4/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(30) The single integrated IT system should be based on interoperability, whereby up-to-date information and data on
recipients of Union funds should be retrieved from and transferred into that system, in an automatic way, in real
time where feasible, using inter alia relevant national databases, internal systems of relevant national bodies and
authorities, management and paying authorities, national public procurement and tender databases, publicly
available data, and data from other Commission databases, thereby ensuring the comprehensiveness and
completeness of the information and data.
(31) The single integrated IT system should be designed and put in place in a way that would allow the aggregation of
relevant information in connection with the same recipients across different Union funding programmes. It should
only use risk indicators that are objective, proportionate, necessary for risk assessment, as well as based on reliable
sources of up-to-date information and data, in real time where feasible. The single integrated IT system should be
designed for its use in line with general data protection principles, including data minimisation and storage
limitation, applicable to the processing of personal data.
(32) For the purpose of ensuring that the functions of the single integrated IT system remain of a high standard, certain
actions and measures should be implemented where feasible, including alignment of data fields with the relevant
national and Commission IT systems and databases, with necessary additions for the purpose of the data-mining and
risk-scoring tool, including reference to the unique identifier of the operations; integration of the relevant national IT
systems and databases with the single integrated IT system for an automatic exchange of information; providing
users with the possibility to tailor and group risk indicators and their weights to the needs and specificities of
a Union fund, programme or country; use of artificial intelligence for analysing and interpreting data; providing
users with multiple possibilities for using search options and filtering capabilities; providing users with guidance on
the interpretation and use of data and results; and training on how to navigate the single integrated IT system, assess
risks and take them into account in verifications and audits.
(33) In accordance with the principle of transparency enshrined in Article 15 TFEU, Union institutions are to conduct
their work as openly as possible. With regard to budget implementation, the application of that principle implies
that citizens should know where, and for what purpose, funds are spent by the Union. Such information fosters
democratic debate, contributes to the participation of citizens in the Union’s decision-making process, reinforces
institutional control and scrutiny over Union expenditure, and contributes to boosting its credibility.
Communication should be more targeted and should aim to increase the visibility of the Union contribution for
citizens. Such objectives should be achieved by the publication, preferably using modern communication tools, of
relevant information concerning all recipients of funds financed from the budget which takes into account those
recipients’ legitimate interests of confidentiality and security and, as far as natural persons are concerned, their right
to privacy and the protection of their personal data. Union institutions should therefore adopt a selective approach
in the publication of information, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Decisions to publish should
be based on relevant criteria in order to provide meaningful information.
(34) Without prejudice to the rules on the protection of personal data, the utmost transparency regarding information on
recipients should be sought. The information on recipients of Union funds should be published on a centralised and
dedicated website of Union institutions, such as the Financial Transparency System, and should be easily available via
suitable and secure technical solutions. Publication requirements should cover all methods of budget
implementation, including by other Union institutions and bodies.
(35) It should be possible for the Commission to implement the budget indirectly through Member State organisations.
For reasons of legal certainty, it is therefore appropriate to define a Member State organisation as an entity
established in a Member State as a public-law body, or as a body governed by private law entrusted with
a public-service mission and provided with adequate financial guarantees by that Member State. Financial backing
provided to such private-law bodies by a Member State in accordance with existing requirements set out in Union
law, in a form decided by that Member State and not necessarily requiring a bank guarantee, should be considered as
adequate financial guarantees.
(36) Personal data referring to natural persons should not be publicly available for longer than the period during which
the funds are being used by the recipient and should therefore be removed after two years.
(37) In most of the cases covered by this Regulation, the publication concerns legal persons. Where natural persons are
concerned, the publication of personal data should respect the principle of proportionality between the importance
of the amount granted and the need to control the best use of the funds. In such cases, the publication of the region
on level 2 of the common classification of territorial units for statistics (NUTS) is consistent with the objective of
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 5/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
publication of information on recipients and ensures equal treatment between Member States of different sizes while
respecting the recipients’ right to private life and, in particular, the protection of their personal data.
(38) For reasons of legal certainty and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, the situations in which
publication should not take place should be specified. For example, information should not be published with regard
to scholarships or other forms of direct support paid to natural persons most in need, to certain contracts with
a very low value or to financial support below a certain threshold provided through financial instruments or
budgetary guarantees, or in cases where disclosure risks threatening the rights and freedoms of the individuals
concerned as protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union or causing harm to the
commercial interests of the recipients. For grants, however, there should be no special exemption from the
obligation to publish information on the basis of a specific threshold, in order to maintain the current practice and
to allow for transparency.
(39) Where personal data of recipients is published for the purposes of transparency in relation to the use of Union funds
and the control of award procedures, those recipients should be informed of such publication, as well as of their
rights and the procedures applicable for exercising those rights, in accordance with Regulations (EU) 2018/1725 and
(EU) 2016/679 (15) of the European Parliament and of the Council.
(40) In order to ensure that the principle of equal treatment is respected for all recipients, the information related to
natural persons should also be published, in line with the obligation for Member States to establish a large degree of
transparency for contracts above the thresholds laid down in Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and
of the Council (16).
(41) In the case of indirect and shared management, the persons, entities or designated bodies implementing Union funds
should make available information on recipients and final recipients. In the case of shared management, the
information should be published in accordance with sector-specific rules. Member States that receive and implement
Union funds under direct management should make available information on their recipients in accordance with this
Regulation. The Commission should make available information about a single website, including a reference to its
address, where the information on recipients and final recipients can be found.
(42) In the interest of increased readability and transparency of data on financial instruments implemented under direct
and indirect management, it is appropriate to merge all reporting requirements into one single working document to
be attached to the draft budget.
(43) In order to ensure transparency, avoid certain duplications and align the timing of reporting with the availability of
the relevant data, while ensuring no information is lost, the information on budgetary guarantees, the common
provisioning fund and contingent liabilities covered under the own resources ceiling should be regrouped under
those three categories and presented in a comprehensive way in the respective reports.
(44) In order to increase transparency and accuracy in reporting, the information on financial instruments presented in
the working document attached to the draft budget should include information on realised losses from assets.
(45) In order to ensure synchronisation with the timeline for the adoption of the statement of estimates, the working
document on the building policy of the Commission should be attached to the draft budget.
(46) In order to promote best practices in the implementation of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the
European Social Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD),
and the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EMFAF), as well as the European Agricultural
Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the Commission should, for information purposes, be able to make available to bodies
responsible for management and control activities a non-binding methodological guide setting out its own control
strategy and approach, including checklists, and examples of best practice. That guide should be updated whenever
necessary.
(15) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General
Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1).
(16) Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing
Directive 2004/18/EC (OJ L 94, 28.3.2014, p. 65).
6/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(47) Case law (17) obliging the Commission to pay interest or other charge due on the amounts of fines cancelled or
reduced by the Court of Justice of the European Union generated a new, unforeseeable situation. It is therefore
necessary to allow the deduction from the revenue of the budget of any interest or other charge due on the amounts
of cancelled or reduced fines, other penalties or sanctions, including any negative return related to those amounts.
This exception to the prohibition on negative revenue should be limited to that specific situation. In order to comply
with the general principle of restoration to the prior state (restitutio in integrum) applicable to fines, other penalties or
sanctions imposed by Union institutions that are later cancelled or reduced by the Court of Justice of the
European Union, it is necessary to provide that any negative return on the provisionally collected amount of such
fines, other penalties or sanctions imposed by Union institutions not be deducted from the amount to be repaid. To
compensate for the loss of enjoyment of monies from the date the concerned third parties provisionally paid the fine
to the Commission until the date of repayment, the amount to be repaid should be increased by interest at the rate
applied by the European Central Bank to its principal refinancing operations increased by one and a half percentage
points as an adequate compensation for such third parties in such situations, which excludes the need to apply any
other interest rate on that amount. Furthermore, that rate corresponds to the interest rate applicable in relation to
the debtor when the debtor chooses to defer the payment of a fine, other penalty or sanction, and provides
a financial guarantee instead of payment. Such interest and charges should only be deducted as negative revenue
until 31 December 2027, pending a definitive solution for the multiannual financial framework after 2027 relative
to the rate of interest and other charges that should be paid as adequate compensation for the reimbursement of
cancelled or reduced fines, other penalties or sanctions. This definitive solution should take stock of past experience
and expected future developments and should be in line with the application of the budgetary principles laid down
in this Regulation. In order to secure sufficient cash flow to compensate the concerned third parties for the loss of
enjoyment of monies where a fine, other penalty or sanction has been cancelled or their amount has been reduced, it
could be necessary to allow for the amounts received by way of fines, other penalties or sanctions and any accrued
interest or other income generated by them to be entered in the budget by the end of the following financial year. In
order to ensure full transparency of this mechanism, the Commission should provide all information available in the
framework of the annual budgetary procedure to the European Parliament and to the Council.
(48) In view of the increased volume of borrowing and lending operations carried out by the Commission on behalf of
the Union to finance the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, transparency regarding those operations should be
further enhanced. To address the increased complexity of those operations and in order to ensure better visibility of
their content, a comprehensive overview of borrowing and lending operations carried out by the Commission
should be added to the document annexed to the section of the budget relating to the Commission. That overview
should include inter alia, detailed information on maturities, schedule of payments, interest due on aggregate level,
the investor base on the primary market, and, where applicable the dimension and costs of the common liquidity
pool underpinning the diversified funding strategy, as well as the borrowing plan. In addition, that overview should
lay out the underlying data and the methodology used by the Commission to calculate the interest incurred and
estimate the interest due, without including any market-sensitive information.
(49) It is appropriate to provide for the possibility for Union institutions to conclude service-level agreements with each
other in order to facilitate the implementation of their appropriations and also for the possibility to conclude such
agreements between departments of Union institutions, Union bodies, European offices, bodies or persons entrusted
with implementation of specific actions in the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) pursuant to Title V of the
TEU and the Office of the Secretary-General of the Board of Governors of the European schools for the provision of
services, supply of products or execution of works or of building contracts.
(50) For reasons of legal certainty, it is necessary to clarify that the applicable law, under which any appropriate actions
are to be taken with regard to conflicts of interest, includes Union and national law relating to conflicts of interest.
(51) In order to increase inclusiveness, private or Union law bodies established in a Member State and eligible to be
entrusted, in accordance with sector-specific rules, with the implementation of Union funds or budgetary guarantees,
should be added to the list of entities to which budget implementation tasks can be entrusted insofar as they are
controlled by public law bodies or private law bodies with public service mission eligible under indirect
management, and are provided with adequate financial guarantees. Where such private or Union law bodies do not
(17) Judgment of the Court of Justice of 11 June 2024, European Commission v Deutsche Telekom AG, C-221/22 P, ECLI:EU:C:2024:488.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 7/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
benefit from financial backing provided by a Member State, adequate financial guarantees should take the form of
joint and several liability by the controlling bodies or equivalent financial guarantees.
(52) It is appropriate to lay down the procedure for setting up new European offices and to distinguish between
obligatory and non-obligatory tasks of such offices. A possibility for Union institutions, Union bodies and other
European offices to delegate the powers of the authorising officer to the director of a European office should be
introduced. European offices should also have the possibility to conclude service-level agreements for the provision
of services, supply of products or execution of works or of building contracts. It is appropriate to set out specific
rules for the drawing-up of accounting records, provisions authorising the accounting officer of the Commission to
delegate some of his or her tasks to staff in those offices and operating procedures for bank accounts which the
Commission should be able to open in the name of a European office.
(53) In order to improve the cost-effectiveness of executive agencies and in light of the practical experience gained with
other Union bodies, it should be possible to entrust the accounting officer of the Commission with all or part of the
tasks of the accounting officer of the executive agency concerned.
(54) For reasons of legal certainty, it is necessary to clarify that directors of executive agencies act as authorising officers
by delegation when managing operational appropriations of programmes delegated to their agencies. To achieve the
full effect of efficiency gains resulting from a global centralisation of certain support services, the possibility for
executive agencies to implement administrative expenditure should be explicitly provided for.
(55) It is necessary to establish rules on the powers and responsibilities of financial actors, in particular authorising
officers and accounting officers.
(56) The European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Auditors and the accounting officer of the Commission should
be informed of the appointment or termination of the duties of an authorising officer by delegation, internal auditor
and accounting officer within two weeks of such appointment or termination.
(57) Authorising officers should be fully responsible for all revenue and expenditure operations executed under their
authority, and for internal control systems, and should be held accountable for their actions, including, where
necessary, through disciplinary proceedings.
(58) The tasks, responsibilities and principles of the procedures to be observed by the authorising officers should also be
laid down. Authorising officers by delegation should ensure that the authorising officers by subdelegation and their
staff receive information and training concerning the control standards and the respective methods and techniques
and that measures are taken in order to ensure the functioning of the control system. The authorising officer by
delegation should report to his or her Union institution on the performance of the duties in the form of an annual
report. That report should include the required financial and management information to support that officer’s
declaration of assurance on the performance of his or her duties, including the information on the overall
performance of the operations carried out. The supporting documents relating to the operations carried out should
be kept for at least five years. The various forms of negotiated procedure for the award of public contracts should be
the subject of a special report from the authorising officer by delegation to the Union institution concerned and of
a report from that Union institution to the European Parliament and to the Council, since those procedures represent
derogations from the usual award procedures.
(59) The double role of Heads of Union delegations, and of their deputies in their absence, as authorising officers by
subdelegation for the European External Action Service (EEAS) and, as regards operational appropriations, for the
Commission should be taken into account.
(60) The delegation of powers of budget implementation by the Commission concerning the operational appropriations
of its own section of the budget to the deputy Heads of Union delegations should be restricted to situations where
the performance of those tasks by the deputy Heads of Union delegations is strictly necessary in order to ensure
business continuity during the absence of Heads of Union delegations. The deputy Heads of Union delegations
should not be allowed to exercise those powers on a systematic basis or for reasons of internal work division.
(61) The accounting officer should be responsible for the proper implementation of payments, the collection of revenue
and the recovery of amounts receivable. The accounting officer should manage the treasury, bank accounts and
third-party files, keep the accounts and be responsible for drawing up the financial statements of Union institutions.
The accounting officer of the Commission should be the only person who is entitled to lay down the accounting
rules and the harmonised charts of accounts, while the accounting officers of all other Union institutions should lay
down accounting procedures applicable in their institutions.
8/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(62) The arrangements for the appointment and termination of the duties of the accounting officer should also be
established.
(63) The accounting officer should set up procedures to ensure that the accounts opened for the requirements of treasury
management and imprest accounts are not in debit.
(64) It is appropriate to align the means of payment authorised for treasury management with modern payment
methods, including credit cards and electronic wallets.
(65) Considering that payments by Union delegations through the standard rules for budgetary, treasury and accounting
operations (budgetary procedures) are increasingly executed through the central treasury and, as a consequence, the
number of transactions and the amounts paid through imprest accounts decrease, it is appropriate to simplify the
rules on the creation, administration and control of imprest accounts.
(66) The conditions for the use of imprest accounts, a system of management which constitutes an exception to normal
budgetary procedures and only concerns limited amounts, should be laid down, and the tasks and responsibilities of
the imprest administrators, as well as those of the authorising officer and the accounting officer in connection with
the control of imprest accounts, should be set out. For reasons of efficiency, imprest accounts should be set up in
Union delegations for appropriations from both the sections of the budget relating to the Commission and to the
EEAS. It is also appropriate to allow, under specific conditions, for the use of imprest accounts in the Union
delegation for payments of limited amounts by budgetary procedures. As regards the appointment of imprest
administrators, it should be possible to select them also from personnel employed by the Commission in the field of
crisis-management aid and humanitarian aid operations whenever there is no available Commission staff covered by
the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the
Union, laid down in Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 259/68 (18) (Staff Regulations).
(67) In order to take into account the situation in the field of crisis-management aid and humanitarian aid operations
whenever there are no Commission staff covered by the Staff Regulations available and the technical difficulties to
have all legal commitments signed by the authorising officer responsible, it should be allowed for the personnel
employed by the Commission in that field to enter into legal commitments of a very low value up to EUR 2 500
which are linked to the payments executed from imprest accounts, and for Heads of Union delegations or their
deputies to enter into legal commitments on the instruction of the authorising officer responsible of the
Commission.
(68) Once the tasks and responsibilities of financial actors have been defined, it is only possible to hold them liable under
the conditions laid down in the Staff Regulations. Specialised financial irregularities panels have been set up in Union
institutions pursuant to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (19).
However, due to the limited number of cases submitted to them and for reasons of efficiency, it is appropriate to
transfer their functions to an interinstitutional panel established pursuant to this Regulation (the ‘panel’). The panel
should be set up to assess requests and issue recommendations on the need to take decisions on exclusion and
imposition of financial penalties referred to it by the Commission or other Union institutions and bodies, without
prejudice to their administrative autonomy in respect of members of their staff. That transfer also aims to avoid
duplication and to mitigate the risks of contradictory recommendations or opinions, in cases where both an
economic operator and a member of staff of a Union institution or body are involved. It is necessary to maintain the
procedure by which it is possible for an authorising officer to seek confirmation of an instruction which that officer
considers to be irregular or contrary to the principle of sound financial management, and thus be released from any
liability. The composition of the panel should be modified when it fulfils this role. The panel should have no
investigative powers.
(69) As regards revenue, it is necessary to address negative adjustments of own resources covered by Council Regulations
(EU, Euratom) No 609/2014 (20) and (EU, Euratom) 2021/770 (21). Except in the case of own resources, it is necessary
to maintain the existing tasks and controls falling within the responsibility of the authorising officers at the different
stages of the procedure: establishment of the estimate of amounts receivable, issuing of recovery orders, dispatch of
(18) OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 1.
(19) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules
applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298,
26.10.2012, p. 1).
(20) Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 609/2014 of 26 May 2014 on the methods and procedure for making available the
traditional, VAT and GNI-based own resources and on the measures to meet cash requirements (OJ L 168, 7.6.2014, p. 39).
(21) Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/770 of 30 April 2021 on the calculation of the own resource based on plastic packaging
waste that is not recycled, on the methods and procedure for making available that own resource, on the measures to meet cash
requirements, and on certain aspects of the own resource based on gross national income (OJ L 165, 11.5.2021, p. 15).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 9/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
the debit note informing the debtor that the amount receivable has been established and the decision, where
necessary, to waive an entitlement subject to criteria guaranteeing compliance with sound financial management in
order to ensure an efficient collection of revenue.
(70) The authorising officer should be able to waive totally or partially the recovery of an established amount receivable
when the debtor has entered into any of the insolvency proceedings as defined in Regulation (EU) 2015/848 of the
European Parliament and of the Council (22), in particular in cases of judicial arrangements, compositions and
analogous proceedings.
(71) Specific provisions on procedures for the adjustment or the reduction to zero of an estimate of the amount
receivable should be laid down.
(72) It is necessary to clarify the timing of the entry in the budget of amounts received by way of fines, other penalties
and sanctions, and of any accrued interest or other income generated by them.
(73) Due to the recent developments on the financial markets and the interest rate applied by the European Central Bank
to its principal refinancing operations, it is necessary to review the provisions concerning the interest rate for fines
or other penalties.
(74) To reflect the specific nature of amounts receivable consisting in fines or other penalties imposed by Union
institutions under the TFEU or the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom Treaty), it
is necessary to introduce specific provisions on the interest rates applicable to amounts due but not yet paid, in the
event that such amounts are increased by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
(75) The rules on recovery should be both clarified and strengthened. In particular, it should be specified that the
accounting officer is to recover amounts by offsetting them also against amounts owed to the debtor by an executive
agency when it implements the budget.
(76) In order to guarantee legal certainty and transparency, rules regarding the deadlines within which a debit note is to
be sent should be laid down.
(77) In order to secure the management of assets whilst prioritising the aim of security and liquidity of the monies, the
amounts relating to fines, other penalties or sanctions imposed under the TFEU or the Euratom Treaty, such as
competition fines which are being contested, should be collected on a provisional basis. It should also be possible for
the Commission to invest those amounts in financial assets, and to determine the assignment of the return on them.
Since the Commission is not the only Union institution which is entitled to impose fines, other penalties or
sanctions, it is necessary to lay down provisions concerning such fines, other penalties or sanctions imposed by
other Union institutions and to lay down rules for their recovery which should be equivalent to those applicable to
the Commission.
(78) In order to ensure that the Commission has all the necessary information for the adoption of financing decisions, it
is necessary to lay down the minimum requirements for the contents of financing decisions on grants, procurement,
Union trust funds for external actions (Union trust funds), prizes, financial instruments, blending facilities or
platforms and budgetary guarantees. At the same time, in order to give a longer-term perspective to the potential
recipients, it is necessary to allow for financing decisions to be adopted for more than one financial year while
specifying that the implementation is subject to the availability of budget appropriations for the respective financial
years. Furthermore, it is necessary to reduce the number of the elements required for the financing decision. In line
with the aim of simplification, the financing decision should at the same time constitute an annual or multiannual
work programme. Since contributions to the Union bodies referred to in Articles 70 and 71 are already established
in the budget, there should be no requirement to adopt a specific financing decision in that respect.
(79) As regards expenditure, the relationship between financing decisions, global budgetary commitments and individual
budgetary commitments as well as the concepts of budgetary and legal commitment should be clarified in order to
establish a clear framework for the different stages of budget implementation.
(80) In order to take into account in particular the number of legal commitments entered into by Union delegations and
Union representations and the exchange-rate fluctuations experienced by them, provisional budgetary commitments
should be possible also in cases where the final payee and the amount are known.
(22) Regulation (EU) 2015/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on insolvency proceedings (OJ L 141,
5.6.2015, p. 19).
10/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(81) In order to align the EAGF with the general accounting and budgetary procedures as soon as it is technically possible,
it should be allowed to proceed with individual budgetary commitments to make the payments, without the need to
first make a global provisional commitment to make the payments followed by individual commitments within
a period of up to two months, or, under certain conditions, a longer period. Furthermore, to be able to proceed with
individual budgetary commitments and payments for the first month of the financial year in December, routine
management expenditure for the EAGF should be added to the types of expenditure for which payments made in
advance are authorised.
(82) As regards the typology of payments which it is possible for authorising officers to make, clarification of the various
types of payments should be provided, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. The rules
for clearing of pre-financing payments should further be clarified, in particular for situations where no interim
clearing is possible. To that effect, appropriate provisions should be included in legal commitments entered into.
(83) This Regulation should stipulate that payments are to be made within specified time limits and that, in the event of
failure to respect such time limits, creditors will be entitled to default interests to be charged to the budget, except in
the case of Member States, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Investment Fund (EIF).
(84) The core elements of electronic invoices in public procurement should be based on the rules set out in Directive
2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (23).
(85) For the sake of clarity, the definition of unsuitable tenders in public procurement should be revised to include
tenders where the economic operator does not have access to procurement.
(86) It is necessary to clarify that specific contracts under framework contracts concluded with a single economic
operator can be awarded and modified within the limits of the terms foreseen in the framework contract.
(87) Considering that the ex ante publicity measures are the same for open, restricted and competitive procedures with
negotiation, the use of a negotiated procedure without prior publication of a contract notice following an
unsuccessful competitive procedure with negotiation should be allowed under certain conditions.
(88) It is necessary to exclude from the scope of the procurement rules of this Regulation the document certification and
authentication services provided by notaries, in cases where the procedures governing such services in the Member
State concerned are not open to competition.
(89) It is appropriate to provide for the possibility of having negotiated procedures without prior publication for services
provided by Member State organisations which cannot participate in competitive procedures.
(90) In order to ensure compliance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (24), the authorising
officer should request the evidence for exclusion and selection criteria to be submitted before the award decision.
(91) It is appropriate to integrate the provisions concerning validation and authorisation of expenditure in one article and
to introduce a definition of ‘decommitments’. Since the transactions are carried out in computerised systems, the
signing of a ‘passed for payment’ voucher in order to express the validation decision should be replaced by an
electronically secured signature, except in a limited number of cases. It is also necessary to clarify that the validation
of expenditure applies to all eligible costs, including, as is the case for the clearing of pre-financing, costs which are
not associated with a payment request.
(92) In order to reduce complexity, streamline existing rules and improve the readability of this Regulation, rules
common to more than one budget implementation instrument should be established. For those reasons, certain
provisions should be regrouped, the wording and scope of other provisions should be aligned and unnecessary
repetitions and cross-referencing should be removed.
(93) Each Union institution should establish an internal audit progress committee tasked with ensuring the independence
of the internal auditor, monitoring the quality of the internal audit work and ensuring that internal and external
audit recommendations are properly taken into account and followed up by its services. The composition of that
(23) Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in public
procurement (OJ L 133, 6.5.2014, p. 1).
(24) Judgment of the General Court of 8 July 2020, Securitec v Commission, T-661/18, ECLI:EU:T:2020:319.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 11/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
internal audit progress committee should be decided by each Union institution, taking into account its organisational
autonomy and the importance of independent expert advice.
(94) More emphasis should be put on performance and results of projects financed from the budget. It is thus appropriate
to define an additional form of financing not linked to costs of the relevant operations in addition to the forms of
Union contribution already well established (reimbursement of the eligible costs actually incurred, unit cost, lump
sums and flat-rate financing). The additional form of financing should be based on the fulfilment of certain
conditions ex ante or on the achievement of results measured by reference to previously set milestones or through
performance indicators.
(95) When the Union contribution takes the form of financing not linked to costs and where reimbursement is based on
results, the achievement of those results should be measured by either pre-defined milestones or targets, and the
achievement of such milestones or targets should be verified before the contribution is paid. Records and supporting
documents linked to the achievement of the targets or milestones should be retained for the purposes of ex post
checks or audits, including by the Court of Auditors.
(96) Where the Commission carries out assessments of the operational and financial capacity of recipients of Union
funds or of their systems and procedures, it should be able to rely on the assessments already conducted by itself,
other entities or donors such as national agencies and international organisations, in order to avoid duplicating
assessments of the same recipients. The possibility for cross-reliance on assessments conducted by other entities
should be used where such assessments were made in compliance with conditions equivalent to those set out in this
Regulation for the applicable method of implementation. Therefore, in order to foster cross-reliance on assessments
among donors, the Commission should promote the recognition of internationally accepted standards or
international best practices.
(97) It is also important to avoid situations in which recipients of Union funds are audited several times by different
entities on the use of those funds. It should therefore be possible to rely on audits already carried out by independent
auditors provided that there is sufficient evidence of their competence and independence and provided that the audit
work is based on internationally accepted audit standards providing reasonable assurance, and that they have been
conducted on the financial statements and reports setting out the use of the Union contribution. Such audits should
then form the basis of the overall assurance on the use of Union funds. To that end, it is important to ensure that the
report of the independent auditor and the related audit documentation is made available on request to the European
Parliament, the Commission, the Court of Auditors and the audit authorities of Member States.
(98) For the purpose of relying on assessments and audits and in order to reduce the administrative burden on persons
and entities receiving Union funds, it is important to ensure that any information already available at Union
institutions, managing authorities or other bodies and entities implementing Union funds, is reused to avoid multiple
requests to recipients or beneficiaries.
(99) In order to provide for a long-term cooperation mechanism with recipients, the possibility of signing financial
framework partnership agreements should be provided for. Financial framework partnerships should be
implemented through grants or through contribution agreements with persons and entities implementing Union
funds. For that purpose, the minimum content of such contribution agreements should be specified. Financial
framework partnerships should not unduly restrict access to Union funding.
(100) The conditions and procedures for suspending, terminating or reducing a Union contribution should be harmonised
across the different budget implementation instruments such as grants, procurement, indirect management, prizes,
etc. The grounds for such suspension, termination or reduction should be defined. Where irregularities or fraud are
subsequently discovered to have taken place during an award procedure, the authorising officer responsible should
take certain corrective measures unless it is justified not to do so, for example where implementation of the legal
commitment is in the interests of the institution or body concerned, or where there is a need to guarantee continuity
of service.
(101) This Regulation should establish standard periods for which documents relating to Union contributions should be
kept by recipients so as to avoid divergent or disproportionate contractual requirements while still providing the
Commission, the Court of Auditors and OLAF with sufficient time to obtain access to such data and documents and
perform the ex post checks and audits. In addition, any person or entity receiving Union funds should be obliged to
cooperate in the protection of the financial interests of the Union.
12/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(102) In order to provide adequate information to participants and recipients and to ensure that they have the possibility
to exercise their right of defence, participants and recipients should be allowed to submit their observations before
adoption of any measure adversely affecting their rights and they should be informed of the means of redress
available to them for challenging such a measure.
(103) In the context of an award procedure, it is not necessary for the authorising officer responsible to provide an
opportunity to a participant to submit observations where that participant has been rejected from an award
procedure. In order to ensure legal certainty, this should also be specified in the provision on adversarial procedures
and means of redress.
(104) Considering the increasingly challenging geopolitical environment with rapidly evolving hybrid and cyber threats, as
well as the need for a digital transformation with its inherent exposure to technical vulnerabilities, the Union needs
to ensure the protection of the security and the public order of the Union or its Member States, as reflected in public
policy and law. This concerns the preservation of fundamental interests of society such as ensuring the security of
energy supply, combating organised crime and fraud. Whilst respecting any international agreements of the Union,
the award of Union funds in relation to strategic assets and interests, such as digital or space infrastructure,
communication and information systems and services, can require the application of specific conditions to ensure
such protection including for the integrity of communication and information systems, and of related supply chains.
The types of conditions and requirements for applying them should be clarified. Nonetheless, specific conditions laid
down in this Regulation are not exhaustive, and it is possible for a basic act to include specific conditions provided
that it does not modify or derogate from requirements and procedures laid down in this Regulation in respect of the
protection of security and public order.
(105) In order to protect the financial interests of the Union, a single early detection and exclusion system should be set up
by the Commission.
(106) The early detection and exclusion system should apply to participants, recipients, entities on whose capacity the
candidate or tenderer intends to rely, subcontractors of a contractor, beneficial owners and affiliated entities of an
excluded entity, natural persons, guarantors, as well as any person or entity receiving Union funds where the budget
is implemented under indirect management, any person or entity receiving Union funds under financial instruments
implemented under direct management, participants or recipients on which entities implementing the budget under
shared management have provided information, and sponsors.
(107) In order to enhance the protection of Union financial interests, the early detection and exclusion system should be
reinforced. It is important to avoid that a person or entity in an exclusion situation is able to apply for or to be
selected for implementing Union funds, or to receive such funds under a programme in shared management. Where
there is a final judgment or a final administrative decision, the authorising officer responsible should be able to
exclude a person or entity, provided that the latter is in an exclusion situation and deemed not reliable due to having
engaged in certain types of serious misconduct. Without prejudice to information obligations set out in other basic
acts, persons and entities implementing the budget under shared management should convey to the Commission,
through any official channel, such as the automated information system established by the Commission currently in
use for reporting of fraud and irregularities (the ‘Irregularity Management System’), information pertaining to
established facts and findings, in the context of such final judgments or final administrative decisions only with
reference to the grounds set out under Article 138(1), points (c)(iv) and (d), when they become aware of such
information. In the absence of a final judgment or a final administrative decision, the authorising officer responsible
should be able to exclude, on the basis of a preliminary classification in law made by the panel, having regard to facts
and findings established in the context of audits or investigations carried out by OLAF, the EPPO or the Court of
Auditors or any other check, audit or control performed under the responsibility of the authorising officer. Such
exclusion should be registered in the early detection and exclusion system database. Persons and entities
implementing the budget under shared management should consult the early detection and exclusion system
database prior to awarding Union funds or selecting participants and beneficiaries. This consultation should concern
the person or entity applying for or selected to implement Union funds. To ensure the effective implementation of
the early detection and exclusion system, the competent authorities of the Member States should enforce the
exclusions recorded in the database with regard to such persons or entities applying for or selected to implement
Union funds for the entire duration of the exclusion. That exclusion should uphold the integrity of the procurement
or selection process and safeguard it against the participation of individuals or entities involved in a serious
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 13/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
misconduct. Payment applications from Member States under shared management, including expenditure related to
a person or entity that has been excluded, should not be reimbursed. Where funds are disbursed to Member States
under performance-based frameworks, specific rules should apply, as set out in sector-specific rules.
(108) It is important to underline that early detection and exclusion system should only apply in respect of Union funds
disbursed to the Member States under direct management, where Member States have the responsibility to take all
the appropriate measures to protect the financial interests of the Union, to the extent that the Commission has
relevant responsibilities under the respective legal framework. Therefore, the responsibilities of the Commission
should be limited to the obligation to refer a case to the panel for the purpose of excluding a person or entity if the
authorising officer becomes aware of serious misconduct following final judgments, final administrative decisions,
or facts and findings established in the context of audits or investigations carried out concerning those funds by
OLAF, the EPPO or the Court of Auditors or any other check, audit, or control performed under the responsibility of
the authorising officer. Without prejudice to these responsibilities of the Commission, the Member States remain
responsible to verify the information on decisions of exclusion registered in the early detection and exclusion system
database, to enforce such decisions and to ensure that no payment application is submitted in respect of a person or
entity that is in such an exclusion situation. Without prejudice to sector-specific rules and voluntary application, the
early detection and exclusion system should not apply to Regulation (EU) 2021/241 of the European Parliament and
of the Council (25).
(109) It should be clarified that, where a decision to register a person or entity in the early detection and exclusion system
database is taken on the basis of an exclusion situation relating to a natural or legal person that is a member of the
administrative, management or supervisory body of that person or entity, or that has powers of representation,
decision or control with regard to that person or entity, or to a natural or legal person that assumes unlimited
liability for the debts of that person or entity or to a natural person who is essential for the award or for the
implementation of the legal commitment, the information registered in the database is to include the information
concerning those persons.
(110) The decision on the exclusion of a person or entity from participation in award procedures or the imposition of
a financial penalty on a person or entity and the decision on the publication of the related information should be
taken by the authorising officers responsible, in light of their autonomy in administrative matters. In the absence of
a final judgment or final administrative decision and in cases related to a serious breach of contract, the authorising
officers responsible should take their decision on the basis of a preliminary classification in law, having regard to the
recommendation of the panel. The panel should also assess the duration of an exclusion in cases where the duration
has not been set by the final judgment or the final administrative decision.
(111) The role of the panel should be to ensure the coherent operation of the early detection and exclusion system. The
panel should be composed of a standing chair, a standing vice-chair who should deputise for the chair, two
representatives of the Commission and a representative of the requesting authorising officer.
(112) In order to align the early detection and exclusion system to public procurement rules and to enhance its
effectiveness, attempting to influence the award of Union funds or unduly obtaining Union funds including in
relation to conflicts of interest should be explicitly included as a specific situation of exclusion under the ground of
grave professional misconduct.
(113) Having due regard to the principle of proportionality, the authorising officer responsible should exclude a person or
entity when it has shown lack of integrity by having engaged in any wrongful conduct that is incompatible with the
values enshrined in Article 2 TEU and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, such as incitement
to discrimination, hatred or violence against a group of persons or a member of a group, where the conduct may
negatively affect the performance of the contract.
(114) An autonomous ground for exclusion should be added in the case of intentional and unjustified lack of cooperation
in the context of investigations, checks or audits carried out by an authorising officer, OLAF, the EPPO or the Court
of Auditors as this can have severe implications on the protection of the financial interests of the Union.
(25) Regulation (EU) 2021/241 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 establishing the Recovery and
Resilience Facility (OJ L 57, 18.2.2021, p. 17).
14/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(115) The preliminary classification in law does not prejudge the final assessment of the conduct of the person or entity
concerned by the competent authorities of Member States under national law. The recommendation of the panel, as
well as the decision of the authorising officer responsible, should therefore be reviewed following the notification of
such a final assessment.
(116) A person or entity should be excluded by the authorising officer responsible where it has been established by a final
judgment or a final administrative decision that the person or entity is guilty of grave professional misconduct, of
non-compliance, whether intentional or not, with the obligations relating to the payment of social security
contributions or taxes, of the creation of an entity in a different jurisdiction with the intent to circumvent fiscal,
social or any other legal obligations, of fraud affecting the budget, of corruption, of conduct related to a criminal
organisation, of money laundering or terrorist financing, of terrorist offences or offences related to terrorist
activities, of child labour or other offences concerning trafficking in human beings or of the commitment of an
irregularity. A person or entity should also be excluded in the event of a serious breach of a legal commitment,
including breach of the requirement to perform any contract to the highest professional standard, or of bankruptcy
or in cases of refusal to co-operate in investigations, checks or audits. In assessing these grounds for exclusion,
unreasonably injurious acts condemned in international trade law could be considered a relevant factor, where they
involve grave professional misconduct.
(117) In accordance with the judgment of the General Court of 15 February 2023 (26), when taking a decision on the
exclusion of a person or entity on the ground of grave professional misconduct, the authorising officer should rely
on evidence that is sufficiently specific, convincing and concrete and is, therefore, capable of establishing clearly and
unequivocally that the applicant engaged in wrongful conduct having an impact on its professional credibility which,
moreover, would denote wrongful intent or gross negligence within the meaning of this Regulation.
(118) When taking a decision on the exclusion of a person or entity, or the imposition of a financial penalty on a person or
entity, and on the publication of the related information, the authorising officer responsible should ensure
compliance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by taking into account the seriousness of the
situation, its budgetary impact, the time which has elapsed since the relevant conduct, the duration of the conduct
and its recurrence, whether the conduct was intentional or the degree of negligence shown and the degree of
collaboration of the person or entity with the relevant competent authority and the contribution of that person or
entity to the investigation.
(119) The authorising officer responsible should also be able to exclude a person or entity where a natural or legal person
assuming unlimited liability for the debts of the economic operator is bankrupt or in a similar situation of
insolvency or where that natural or legal person fails to comply with its obligations to pay social security
contributions or taxes, where such situations have an impact on the financial situation of that economic operator.
(120) In order to further enhance the protection of the financial interests of the Union, it should be possible for the
authorising officer to exclude or impose a financial penalty on beneficial owners and affiliated entities of the
excluded entity that were involved in the misconduct of the excluded entity. The possibility to exclude beneficial
owners and affiliated entities is intended to prevent that a person or entity that has been excluded from being
selected to implement Union funds could continue to participate in procurement and award procedures, through
a new company or existing affiliated entities.
(121) In order to increase its effectiveness, the early detection and exclusion system should also apply to natural persons
who are deemed responsible for the misconduct of an entity, so that they are unable to participate in award
procedures or be selected to implement Union funds either in a personal capacity or through a new corporate
identity, without prejudice to the right to be heard.
(122) At the request of the authorising officer, the panel of the early detection and exclusion system should have the ability
to issue its recommendations by means of an expedited procedure, without prejudice to the right to be heard. Such
procedure should be used when the circumstances or the nature of the case requires so, for instance where a final
judgment or a final administrative decision has been issued by a Member State’s authority but the duration of the
exclusion is not set; or a final judgment or a final administrative decision has been issued by a third country; or
a sanction equivalent to an exclusion has been already imposed on the person or entity by virtue of a decision of
international organisations.
(26) Judgment of the General Court of 15 February 2023, RH v Commission, T-175/21T, ECLI:EU:T:2023:77, paragraph 62.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 15/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(123) A person or entity should not be subject to a decision on exclusion when it has taken remedial measures, thus
demonstrating its reliability. That possibility should not apply in cases of the most severe criminal activities.
(124) In light of the principle of proportionality, a distinction should be made between cases where it is possible to impose
a financial penalty as an alternative to exclusion, on the one hand, and cases where the gravity of the conduct of the
recipient concerned in respect of attempting to unduly obtain Union funds justifies the imposition of a financial
penalty in addition to the exclusion so as to ensure a deterrent effect, on the other. The maximum amount of the
financial penalty which can be imposed by the contracting authority should also be defined.
(125) A financial penalty should only be imposed on a recipient and not on a participant given that the amount of the
financial penalty to be imposed is calculated on the basis of the value of the legal commitment at stake.
(126) The possibility to take decisions on exclusion or to impose financial penalties is independent from the possibility to
apply contractual penalties, such as liquidated damages.
(127) The duration of an exclusion should be limited in time, as is the case under Directive 2014/24/EU, and should be in
accordance with the principle of proportionality.
(128) It is necessary to determine the commencement date and the duration of the limitation period for taking decisions
on exclusion or imposing financial penalties.
(129) It is important to be able to reinforce the deterrent effect achieved by the exclusion and the financial penalty. In that
regard, the deterrent effect should be reinforced by the possibility to publish the information related to the exclusion
and/or to the financial penalty in a manner that satisfies the data-protection requirements set out in Regulations
(EU) 2018/1725 and (EU) 2016/679. Such publication should contribute to ensuring that the same conduct is not
repeated. For reasons of legal certainty and in accordance with the principle of proportionality it should be specified
in which situations a publication should not take place. In its assessment, the authorising officer responsible should
have regard to any recommendation of the panel. As far as natural persons are concerned, personal data should only
be published in exceptional circumstances justified by the seriousness of the conduct or its impact on the financial
interests of the Union.
(130) Information related to an exclusion or to a financial penalty should only be published in certain cases such as grave
professional misconduct, fraud, a significant deficiency in complying with the main obligations of a legal
commitment financed by the budget, or an irregularity, or where an entity is created in a different jurisdiction with
the intent to circumvent fiscal, social or any other legal obligations.
(131) The criteria for exclusion should be clearly separated from the criteria leading to a possible rejection from an award
procedure.
(132) The information on the early detection of risks and on decisions on exclusion and the imposition of financial
penalties on a person or entity should be centralised. For that purpose, related information should be stored in
a database set up and operated by the Commission as the owner of the centralised system. That system should
operate in compliance with the right to privacy and the protection of personal data.
(133) While the setting-up and the operation of the early detection and exclusion system should be the responsibility of
the Commission, other Union institutions and bodies, as well as all persons and entities implementing Union funds
under direct, shared and indirect management, should participate in that system by transmitting relevant
information to the Commission. The authorising officer responsible and the panel should guarantee the right of
defence of the person or entity. The same right should be given to a person or entity, in the context of an early
detection, where an act envisaged by an authorising officer could adversely affect the rights of the person or entity
concerned. In cases of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the Union
which are not yet subject to a final judgment, it should be possible for the authorising officer responsible to defer the
notification of the person or entity and for the panel to defer the right of the person or entity to submit its
observations. Such deferral should only be justified where there are compelling legitimate grounds to preserve the
confidentiality of the investigation or of national judicial proceedings.
(134) The Court of Justice of the European Union should be given unlimited jurisdiction with regard to decisions on
exclusion and financial penalties imposed pursuant to this Regulation, in accordance with Article 261 TFEU.
16/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(135) In order to address attempts by entities to avoid possible adverse consequences of their misconduct, rules of
notification should be established under precise conditions in the context of early detection and exclusion
procedures. Furthermore, the use of electronic exchange system should apply to such procedures.
(136) In order to facilitate the protection of the financial interests of the Union across all methods of budget
implementation, it should be possible for the persons and entities involved in budget implementation to get access to
the early detection and exclusion database and verify the exclusions decided upon by the authorising officers at
Union level. The early detection and exclusion database should be consulted prior to awarding or selecting a person
or entity for implementing and receiving Union funds. This is without prejudice to the possibility of consulting the
database at other stages of the implementation of the legal commitment.
(137) This Regulation should foster the objective of e-government, in particular the use of electronic data in the exchange
of information between Union institutions and third parties.
(138) Progress towards the electronic exchange of information and the electronic submission of documents, including
e-procurement, where appropriate, which constitute a major simplification measure, should be accompanied by
clear conditions for the acceptance of the systems to be used, so as to establish a legally sound environment while
preserving flexibility in the management of Union funds for the participants, recipients and the authorising officers
as provided for in this Regulation.
(139) In order to improve governance and quality of interoperable digital public services, Member States, Union
institutions, executive agencies and Union bodies should apply to the greatest possible extent the European
Interoperability Framework.
(140) Rules on the composition and tasks of the committee in charge of evaluating application documents in procurement
procedures, grant award procedures and in contests for prizes should be laid down. It should be possible for the
committee to include external experts where that possibility is provided for in the basic act.
(141) In line with the principle of good administration, the authorising officer should request clarifications or missing
documents while respecting the principle of equality of treatment and without substantially changing the application
documents. The authorising officer should have the possibility to decide not to do so only in duly justified cases. In
addition, the authorising officer should be able to correct an obvious clerical error or request the participant to
correct it.
(142) Sound financial management should require that the Commission protects itself by requesting guarantees at the time
of paying pre-financing. The requirement for contractors and beneficiaries to lodge guarantees should not be
automatic, but should be based on a risk analysis. Where, in the course of implementation, the authorising officer
discovers that a guarantor is not or is no longer authorised to issue guarantees in accordance with the applicable
national law, the authorising officer should be able to require replacement of the guarantee.
(143) The different sets of rules for direct and indirect management, in particular as regards the concept of ‘budget
implementation tasks’, have created confusion and entailed risks of errors of qualification both for the Commission
and for its partners and should thus be simplified and harmonised.
(144) The provisions on the ex ante pillar assessment of persons and entities implementing Union funds under indirect
management should be revised to enable the Commission to rely as much as possible on the systems, rules and
procedures, including due diligence, of those persons and entities which have been deemed equivalent to the ones
used by the Commission. In addition, it is important to clarify that, where the assessment reveals areas in which the
procedures in place are not sufficient to protect the financial interests of the Union, the Commission should be able
to sign contribution agreements while taking appropriate supervisory measures. It is also important to clarify in
which cases it is possible for the Commission to decide not to require an ex ante pillar assessment in order to sign
contribution agreements.
(145) In order to ensure efficient implementation of the budget, it is appropriate to further clarify the application of the
principle of proportionality to indirect management. While the principle of proportionality cannot affect the nature
of the obligations imposed by the relevant applicable legal framework, it should be systematically used in the
cooperation with Union implementing partners, in order to strike the right balance between protection of the
financial interests of the Union and preserving the Union’s ability to implement its policies. Certain adjustments and
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 17/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
restructuring of the relevant provisions should be made. This should not be interpreted as limiting in practice the
necessary rights and access required for the authorising officer responsible, for the EPPO in respect of those
Member States participating in enhanced cooperation pursuant to Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 (27), for
OLAF, for the Court of Auditors, and, where appropriate, for the relevant national authorities, to comprehensively
exert their respective competences.
(146) In line with the principle of proportionality, it is necessary to provide for an application of the obligations provided
for by this Regulation to the final recipients receiving support from the budget under financial instruments or
budgetary guarantees. This application should take into due consideration and be commensurate to the nature of the
final recipients and of the action, and the financial risks involved. Unnecessary administrative burden should be
avoided in particular where final recipients are micro enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
and comparable economic operators with equivalent turnover or balance sheet total.
(147) The financial rules laid down in this Regulation should be kept simple and clear in order to avoid gold-plating and
additional administrative burdens for the recipients of Union funds, Member States, Union institutions or other
persons and entities implementing the budget.
(148) The proportionality principle also needs to be applied to the assessment of rules, systems and procedures of entities
that have already been successfully assessed, such as entities using rules established by the Commission, which
should be exempted from ex ante assessment. It should also be possible to exempt from ex ante assessment Member
States’ organisations entrusted with the implementation of Union funds under shared management.
(149) It is necessary to clarify that when entities are selected to work under indirect management as a result of a call for
expression of interest, the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination apply.
(150) Remuneration of persons and entities implementing the budget should, where relevant and possible, be
performance-based.
(151) To ensure the integrity of the budget when implemented under indirect management, it is appropriate to request
from implementing partners that they inform the Commission of suspected cases of fraud, corruption or any other
illegal activity and to include such obligation in agreements that they conclude with third parties under indirect
management.
(152) The Commission enters into partnerships with third countries by means of financing agreements. It is important to
clarify the content of such financing agreements, in particular for those parts of an action that are implemented by
the third country under indirect management.
(153) It is important to recognise the specific nature of blending facilities or platforms where the Commission blends its
contribution with that of finance institutions and to clarify the application of the provisions on financial instruments
and budgetary guarantees.
(154) Procurement rules and principles applicable to public contracts awarded by Union institutions on their own account
should be based on the rules set out in Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (28) and
Directive 2014/24/EU.
(155) Experience has shown that the application of the rules on procurement under this Regulation is not appropriate for
the award of public contracts for financial services in connection with the issue, sale, purchase or transfer of
securities or other financial instruments within the meaning of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament
and of the Council (29), used by the Commission in the context of its borrowing and lending, asset management and
treasury operations. This includes services provided by central banks, the European Stability Mechanism, EIB and
other international financial institutions, and national entities entrusted with the issuance and management of
sovereign debt. For that reason and in accordance with Article 10 of Directive 2014/24/EU the rules on
procurement laid down in this Regulation should not apply to those services.
(27) Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 implementing enhanced cooperation on the establishment of the
European Public Prosecutor’s Office (‘the EPPO’) (OJ L 283, 31.10.2017, p. 1).
(28) Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions contracts
(OJ L 94, 28.3.2014, p. 1).
(29) Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and
amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (OJ L 173, 12.6.2014, p. 349).
18/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(156) In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is appropriate to modify the definition of crisis, which applies in particular to
the common provisions and to procurement in the field of external actions and should cover public and animal
health, food security and food safety emergencies and global health threats. In order to allow the flexibility needed to
ensure a rapid response to unforeseen circumstances of extreme urgency resulting from a crisis, the contracting
authority should be allowed to apply simplified procurement rules, such as use of negotiated procedure without
prior publication of a contract notice applicable to crisis situations and acceptance of evidence on exclusion and
selection criteria from the presumed successful tenderer after the award decision but in any case before the signature
of the contract. The contracting authority should also have flexibility to exceptionally modify a contract or
a framework contract, beyond the applicable thresholds, without a procurement procedure in order to respond to
a crisis. Moreover, in a situation of crisis it should be possible, exceptionally, to add new contracting authorities after
the launch of a procurement procedure and before the contract signature or following a modification of a contract
without restricting competition. A declaration of crisis should be required in line with the relevant internal rules
prior to having recourse to such simplified rules, except for procurement in the field of external action where such
declaration is not required. In addition, the authorising officers responsible should justify case-by-case the extreme
urgency resulting from the declared crisis.
(157) In the case of mixed contracts, the methodology of the contracting authorities for determining the applicable rules
should be clarified.
(158) The ex ante and ex post publicity measures necessary to launch a procurement procedure should be clarified for
contracts equal to or greater than the thresholds set out in Directive 2014/24/EU, for contracts below those
thresholds and for contracts falling outside the scope of that Directive.
(159) This Regulation should include an exhaustive list of all the procurement procedures available to Union institutions
regardless of the thresholds.
(160) In the interests of administrative simplification and in order to encourage the participation of SMEs, negotiated
procedures for middle-value contracts should be provided for.
(161) Where necessary, it should be possible to carry out a joint procurement between, on the one hand, one or more
contracting authorities from Member States and, on the other hand, Union institutions, Union bodies or executive
agencies, without those institutions, bodies or agencies being bound to acquire works, supplies or services. In order
to allow contracting authorities to fully benefit from the potential of the internal market in terms of economies of
scale and risk-benefit sharing, the possibilities for Union institutions, Union bodies or executive agencies to purchase
supplies or services on behalf of two or more Member States should be extended. A Union institution, Union body
or an executive agency should be able to conduct the relevant procurement procedure on behalf or in the name of
Member States based on an agreement between the parties, or act as a wholesaler, by buying, stocking and reselling
or donating supplies and services, including rentals, to Member States or partner organisations it has selected. In
accordance with rules on compliance of the secondary legislation with this Regulation, other Union legislative acts
can contain more specific rules on joint procurement or procurement on behalf or in the name of Member States.
When doing so, such acts should clearly indicate such derogations and state the specific reasons justifying them.
(162) As is the case in Directive 2014/24/EU, this Regulation should allow for market consultation prior to the launch of
a procurement procedure. In order to ensure that an innovation partnership is used only when the desired works,
supplies and services do not exist on the market or as a near-to-market development activity, an obligation to carry
out such preliminary market consultation before using an innovation partnership should be laid down in this
Regulation.
(163) The contribution of contracting authorities to the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable
development, while ensuring that they obtain the best value for money for their contracts, in particular through
requiring specific labels or through the use of appropriate award methods, should be clarified.
(164) In line with the objectives of the European Green Deal, progress towards implementation of greening aspects should
be ensured by including, when relevant, for the calls for tenders, green selection or award criteria, which will
incentivise the economic operators to offer more sustainable options.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 19/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(165) In order to ensure that, when executing contracts, economic operators comply with the applicable environmental,
social and labour law obligations established by Union law, national law, collective agreements or the international
social and environmental conventions listed in Annex X to Directive 2014/24/EU, such obligations should be part of
the minimum requirements defined by the contracting authority and should be integrated in the contracts signed by
the contracting authority.
(166) It is appropriate that different cases usually referred to as situations of a conflict of interests be identified and treated
distinctly. The notion of a ‘conflict of interests’ should be solely used for cases where a person or entity with
responsibilities for budget programming, implementation, audit or control, or an official or an agent of a Union
institution or national authorities at any level, is in such a situation. Attempts to unduly influence an award
procedure or obtain confidential information should be treated as grave professional misconduct which can lead to
the rejection from the award procedure and/or exclusion from Union funds. In addition, economic operators might
be in a situation where they should not be selected to implement a contract because of a professional conflicting
interest. For instance, a company should not evaluate a project in which it has participated or an auditor should not
be in a position to audit accounts it has previously certified. The assessment of conflicts of interest, and the
obligation to set up systems to detect and prevent such conflicts, should respect the principle of proportionality.
Appropriate guidance on the assessment of conflicts of interest should provide additional clarification to those
assessing such situations at Union and national level, with a view to contributing to legal certainty.
(167) In order to ensure the absence of professional conflicting interests that can affect or risk affecting the capacity to
perform the contract in an independent, impartial and objective manner, it is necessary to clarify the obligations of
the contracting authority and of the candidates or tenderers. On the one hand, the candidates, tenderers, and, where
appropriate, entities on whose capacity they rely as well as envisaged subcontractors should declare the absence of
such conflicting interests, and provide related information where requested. On the other hand, the contracting
authority should assess the existence of such professional conflicting interests when declared or on the basis of
additional information. Where such professional conflicting interests are established, this should lead to rejection
from the award.
(168) A competitive and open internal market should ensure a level playing field and enable both European and foreign
economic operators to compete on the merits. Foreign subsidies can distort the internal market and undermine the
level playing field in procurement procedures where, for instance, the awarded economic operators have benefitted
from foreign subsidies. To remedy this risk, Regulation (EU) 2022/2560 of the European Parliament and of the
Council (30) established rules and procedures to investigate foreign subsidies that actually or potentially distort the
internal market and, where relevant, to ensure that those distortions be redressed. In order to ensure consistency
between the rules applicable to Member States and the procurement procedures under this Regulation, Union
institutions, Union bodies and executive agencies should apply mutatis mutandis the same rules and procedures on
foreign subsidies laid down in Regulation (EU) 2022/2560.
(169) In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Regulation, implementing powers should be
conferred on the Commission relating to the procedural details and related items regarding the preliminary review
and the in-depth investigation of any foreign financial contributions obtained in a procurement procedure. Those
implementing powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European
Parliament and of the Council (31).
(170) In accordance with Directive 2014/24/EU, it should be possible to verify whether an economic operator is excluded,
to apply selection and award criteria, as well as to verify compliance with the procurement documents in any order.
As a result, it should be possible to reject tenders on the basis of award criteria without a prior check of the
corresponding tenderer with regard to exclusion or selection criteria.
(171) Contracts should be awarded on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender in line with Article 67 of
Directive 2014/24/EU.
(30) Regulation (EU) 2022/2560 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 on foreign subsidies distorting
the internal market (OJ L 330, 23.12.2022, p. 1).
(31) Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and
general principles concerning mechanisms for control by the Member States of the Commission’s exercise of implementing powers
(OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2011/182/oj).
20/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(172) In the interests of legal certainty, it is necessary to clarify that the selection criteria are strictly linked to the
evaluation of candidates or tenderers and that the award criteria are strictly linked to the evaluation of the tenders. In
order to align Union procurement rules with Directive 2014/24/EU, contracting authorities should also be allowed
to use as an award criterion the organisation, qualification and experience of the staff assigned to perform the
contract, where they can significantly affect the quality of contract performance and, as a result, the economic value
of the tender. Contracting authorities which make use of any of those award criteria should ensure, by appropriate
contractual means, that the staff assigned to contract performance effectively fulfil the specified quality standards.
The contracting authorities should give their consent to any replacement of such staff and should verify whether
replacing staff affords an equivalent level of quality as the replaced staff. Furthermore, it should be ensured that there
is no overlap and double evaluation of the same element under the selection and award criteria.
(173) In order to reduce time-consuming procedures and to enable contracting authorities to take full advantage of the
possibilities afforded by dynamic purchasing systems, it is necessary to simplify the rules governing those systems. In
particular, those systems should be operated in the form of a restricted procedure, thus allowing for any economic
operator that submits a request to participate and meets the exclusion and selection criteria to take part in
procurement procedures carried out through the dynamic purchasing system over its period of validity, which
should not be limited to four years. Tenders can also be presented in the form of an electronic catalogue particularly
for off-the-shelf products or services generally available on the market. Moreover, in order to reduce the
administrative burden, the requirement to appoint an opening and evaluation committee should be waived for
specific procurements under a dynamic purchasing system.
(174) Considering the progress in digitalisation of procurement procedures, it should be clarified that public openings for
open procedures can be organised remotely via video conferences.
(175) In order to simplify and align with the rules applicable to procurement by Union institutions on their own account,
the obligation to publish the list of selected candidates to be invited to submit a tender on the Commission’s website
should be removed in the field of external actions.
(176) Union procurement should ensure that Union funds are used in an effective, transparent and appropriate way, while
reducing administrative burden on recipients of Union funds. In that regard, e-procurement should contribute to the
better use of Union funds and enhance access to contracts for all economic operators. All Union institutions
conducting procurement should publish clear rules on their websites regarding acquisition, expenditure and
monitoring, as well as all contracts awarded, including the value thereof.
(177) In e-procurement, the electronic exchange of information with participants should rely to the largest extent possible
on existing standards, such as the European Single Procurement Document and e-Invoicing standards mandated
respectively by Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/7 (32) and by Directive 2014/55/EU.
(178) The existence of an opening phase and an evaluation for any procedure should be clarified. An award decision
should always be the outcome of an evaluation.
(179) When notified of the outcome of a procedure, candidates and tenderers should be informed of the grounds on which
the decision was taken and should receive a detailed statement of reasons based on the content of the evaluation
report.
(180) It is appropriate to specify that, upon request, unsuccessful tenderers which submitted compliant tenders should
receive information on the characteristics and the relative advantages of the successful tender. Unsuccessful tenderers
should, upon request, receive additional information even where the compliance of their tender has not been
checked due to the selected order of criteria. It should also be clarified that rejected tenderers should not have access
to such information.
(181) For framework contracts with reopening of competition, there should be no obligation to provide information on
the characteristics and the relative advantages of the successful tender to an unsuccessful contractor, on the basis that
the receipt of such information by parties to the same framework contract each time a competition is reopened
might prejudice fair competition between them.
(32) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/7 of 5 January 2016 establishing the standard form for the European Single
Procurement Document (OJ L 3, 6.1.2016, p. 16).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 21/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(182) A contracting authority should be able to cancel a procurement procedure, or partially cancel in the case of
procedures awarded in lots or through multiple sourcing, before the contract is signed, without the candidates or
tenderers being entitled to claim compensation. This should be without prejudice to situations where the contracting
authority has acted in such a way that it is possible to hold it liable for damages in accordance with the general
principles of Union law.
(183) The award of contracts following multiple sourcing procurement should be allowed in duly justified cases, in
particular in order to avoid the over-reliance on a single provider for critical equipment and services, taking into
account the objectives of technological independence and continuity of services.
(184) As is the case in Directive 2014/24/EU, it is necessary to clarify the conditions under which it is possible to modify
a contract during its performance without a new procurement procedure. In particular, a new procurement
procedure should not be required in the event of administrative changes, universal succession and application of
clear and unequivocal revision clauses or options that do not alter the minimum requirements of the initial
procedure. A new procurement procedure should be required in the case of material modifications to the initial
contract, in particular to the scope and content of the mutual rights and obligations of the parties, including as
regards the distribution of intellectual property rights. Such modifications demonstrate the parties’ intention to
renegotiate the essential terms or conditions of that contract, in particular if the modifications would have had an
influence on the outcome of the procedure had the modified terms or conditions been part of the initial procedure.
(185) Experience gained has shown that it is necessary to clarify in which cases a modification is considered altering the
subject matter of the contract.
(186) It is necessary to provide for the option of requiring a performance guarantee in relation to works, supplies and
complex services in order to guarantee compliance with substantial contractual obligations and to ensure proper
performance throughout the duration of the contract. It is also necessary to provide for the option of requiring
a retention money guarantee to cover the contract liability period, in line with customary practice in the sectors
concerned.
(187) In order to determine the applicable thresholds and procedures, it is necessary to clarify whether Union institutions,
executive agencies and Union bodies are deemed to be contracting authorities. They should not be deemed to be
contracting authorities in cases where they purchase from a central purchasing body. In addition, Union institutions
form a single legal entity and their departments cannot conclude contracts, but only service-level agreements,
between themselves.
(188) It is appropriate to include a reference in this Regulation to the thresholds set out in Directive 2014/24/EU
applicable to works and to supplies and services and in Directive 2014/23/EU for concessions. The revision of those
thresholds as provided for in Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/23/EU should therefore be directly applicable to
procurement and concessions under this Regulation respectively.
(189) The award of concession contracts should be simplified by applying the thresholds laid down in Directive
2014/23/EU to concessions.
(190) For harmonisation and simplification purposes, the standard procedures applicable to procurement should also be
applied to purchases provided for under the light regime for contracts for social and other specific services referred
to in Article 74 of Directive 2014/24/EU. Therefore, the threshold for light regime purchases should be aligned with
the threshold for service contracts.
(191) In order to better adapt procurement procedures to market conditions outside the Union, this Regulation should
include specific provisions under which Union delegations award contracts on their own account in third countries.
Therefore, it is appropriate to revise the thresholds for awarding contracts applied by the Union delegations in third
countries and align them to those applied for awarding contracts in the field of external actions.
(192) It is necessary to clarify the conditions of application of the standstill period to be observed before signing a contract
or framework contract.
(193) The rules applicable to procurement in the field of external actions should be consistent with the principles laid
down in Directives 2014/23/EU and 2014/24/EU.
22/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(194) The rules on access to procurement, applicable both at the time of tender submission and during contract
implementation, should include the conditions laid down in implementing acts (International Procurement
Instrument measures) adopted under Regulation (EU) 2022/1031 of the European Parliament and of the Council (33)
as well as the respective obligations of the successful tenderers set out in that Regulation.
(195) In order to reduce complexity, streamline existing rules and improve the readability of the procurement rules, it is
necessary to regroup the general provisions on procurement and the specific provisions applicable to procurement
in the field of external actions and to remove unnecessary repetitions and cross-referencing.
(196) It is necessary to clarify which economic operators have access to procurement under this Regulation depending on
their place of establishment and to provide explicitly for the possibility of such access also for international
organisations.
(197) In duly justified cases, where the contract is to be awarded by a Union delegation in a third country or exclusively in
the interest of a Union delegation in a third country, the authorising officer responsible should be allowed to open
access to the procurement procedure to natural or legal persons established in a third country that does not have
a special agreement with the Union in the field of procurement. That flexibility should be provided in particular
where there are no natural or legal persons established in countries that have access to the procurement under
a special agreement with the Union in the field of procurement who can provide the required work, supplies or
services.
(198) In order to achieve a balance between the need for transparency and greater coherence of procurement rules on the
one hand, and the need to provide flexibility on certain technical aspects of those rules on the other, the technical
rules on procurement should be set out in an annex to this Regulation and the power to adopt acts in accordance
with Article 290 TFEU should be delegated to the Commission in respect of amendments to that Annex.
(199) It is necessary to clarify the scope of the Title on grants, particularly with regard to the type of action or body eligible
for a grant, as well as with regard to legal commitments that can be used to cover grants. In particular, grant
decisions should be phased out due to their limited use and the progressive introduction of e-grants. The structure
should be simplified by moving the provisions on instruments which are not grants to other parts of this Regulation.
The nature of bodies which can receive operating grants should be clarified by no longer referring to bodies pursuing
an aim of general Union interest since those bodies are covered by the notion of bodies having an objective forming
part of and supporting a Union policy.
(200) In order to simplify procedures and improve the readability of this Regulation, provisions related to the content of
the grant application, of the call for proposals and of the grant agreement should be simplified and streamlined.
(201) In order to facilitate the implementation of actions financed by multiple donors where the overall financing of the
action is not known at the time of commitment of the Union contribution, it is necessary to clarify the way the
Union contribution is defined and the method of verifying its use.
(202) A new category of a very low value grant of an amount of up to EUR 15 000 should be introduced with a view to
simplifying administrative requirements for applicants for Union funding. Given the very low value of such grants,
the requirements for presenting a declaration on honour and for assessing the financial capacity should be waived.
(203) In order to further simplify grant applications in line with sound financial management, it should be possible for the
authorising officer to decide, based on a risk assessment, that financial capacity checks are focused only on the lead
applicant.
(204) Experience gained in the use of lump sums, unit costs or flat-rate financing has shown that such forms of financing
significantly simplify administrative procedures and substantially reduce the risk of error. Regardless of the field of
Union intervention, lump sums, unit costs and flat rates are suitable forms of financing, in particular for
standardised and recurrent actions, such as mobility or training activities. Moreover, as institutional cooperation
(33) Regulation (EU) 2022/1031 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 June 2022 on the access of third-country
economic operators, goods and services to the Union’s public procurement and concession markets and procedures supporting
negotiations on access of Union economic operators, goods and services to the public procurement and concession markets of third
countries (International Procurement Instrument – IPI) (OJ L 173, 30.6.2022, p. 1).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 23/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
between public administrations of Member States and of beneficiary or partner countries (institutional twinning) is
implemented by Member State institutions, the use of simplified cost options is justified and should foster their
engagement. In the interest of increased efficiency, Member States and other recipients of Union funds should be able
to make more frequent use of simplified cost options. In this context, the conditions for using lump sums, unit costs
and flat rates should be made more flexible. It is necessary to provide explicitly for the establishment of single lump
sums covering the entire eligible costs of the action or the work programme. In addition, in order to foster focus on
results, priority should be given to output-based funding. Input-based lump sums, unit costs and flat rates should
remain an option where output-based ones are not possible or appropriate.
(205) In order to ensure legal certainty, it is necessary to clarify that, where a grant takes the form of financing not linked
to costs, the provisions on an estimated budget, co-financing and no double funding do not apply since they cannot
be applied in a case where the amount to be reimbursed is linked to defined conditions or results and is decoupled
from the underlying costs.
(206) The administrative procedures for authorising lump sums, unit costs and flat rates should be simplified by vesting
the power for such authorisation in the authorising officers responsible. Where appropriate, such authorisation can
be given by the Commission in light of the nature of the activities or of the expenditure or in light of the number of
authorising officers concerned.
(207) In order to bridge the gap in the availability of data used to establish lump sums, unit costs and flat rates, the use of
an expert judgement should be allowed.
(208) While the potential of more frequent use of simplified forms of financing should be realised, compliance with the
principle of sound financial management, and in particular the principles of economy, efficiency and no double
funding, should be ensured. For that purpose, simplified forms of financing should ensure that the resources
employed are adequate to the objectives to be achieved, that the same costs are not financed more than once from
the budget, that the co-financing principle is respected and that overall overcompensation of recipients is avoided.
Therefore, simplified forms of financing should be based on statistical or accounting data, similar objective means or
expert judgement. In addition, suitable checks, controls and periodic assessments should continue to apply.
(209) The scope of checks and controls as opposed to the periodic assessments of lump sums, unit costs or flat rates
should be clarified. Those checks and controls should focus on the fulfilment of the conditions triggering the
payment of lump sums, unit costs or flat-rates, including, where required, the achievement of outputs and/or results.
Those conditions should not require reporting on the costs actually incurred by the beneficiary. Where the amounts
of lump sums, unit costs or flat-rate financing have been determined ex ante by the authorising officer responsible or
by the Commission they should not be challenged by ex post controls. This should not prevent the reduction of
a grant in the event of poor, partial or late implementation or of irregularity, fraud or a breach of other obligations.
In particular, a grant should be reduced where the conditions triggering the payment of lump sums, unit costs or flat
rates have not been fulfilled. The frequency and scope of the periodic assessment should depend on the evolution
and the nature of the costs, in particular taking into account substantial changes in market prices and other relevant
circumstances. The periodic assessment could lead to adjustments of the lump sums, unit costs or flat rates
applicable to future agreements, but should not be used for questioning the value of the lump sums, unit costs or flat
rates already agreed upon. The periodic assessment of lump sums, unit costs or flat rates might require access to the
accounts of the beneficiary for statistical and methodological purposes and such access is also necessary for
fraud-prevention and detection purposes.
(210) Where a grant takes the form of flat-rates, unit costs or lump sums and there is thus no ex post verification of the
underlying costs, it is not possible to check that the eligible costs were incurred during the lifetime of the action. In
order to ensure legal certainty, it should be clarified that ex post checks and controls on beneficiaries will verify that
the fulfilment of the conditions triggering the payment of flat rates, unit costs or lump sums was achieved during the
implementation period.
24/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(211) In order to facilitate the participation of small organisations in the implementation of the Union policies in an
environment of limited availability of resources, it is necessary to recognise the value of the work provided by
volunteers as eligible costs. As a result, such organisations should be able to rely to a greater extent on volunteers’
work for the sake of providing co-financing to the action or the work programme. Without prejudice to the
maximum co-financing rate specified in the basic act, in such cases, the Union grant should be limited to the
estimated eligible costs other than those covering volunteers’ work. As volunteers’ work is a work provided by third
parties without a remuneration being paid to them by the beneficiary, the limitation avoids reimbursing costs which
the beneficiary did not incur. In addition, the value of the volunteers’ work should not exceed 50 % of the in-kind
contributions and any other co-financing.
(212) To ensure legal certainty, it should be clarified that, where in-kind contributions from third parties in the form of
volunteers’ work are presented as eligible costs in the estimated budget, the co-financing to which the 50 % limit is
applied should include all the sources of financing, that is the Union grant, in-kind contributions and other sources
of financing.
(213) In order to protect one of the fundamental principles of public finances, the no-profit principle should be retained in
this Regulation.
(214) To ensure legal certainty when calculating the Union contribution in the case of a profit in a grant funded by the
budget, it should be clarified that the recovery of the percentage of the profit corresponding to the Union
contribution to the eligible costs should not differentiate between actually incurred costs and simplified costs.
(215) In principle, grants should be awarded following a call for proposals. Where exceptions are allowed, they should be
interpreted and applied restrictively in terms of scope and duration. The exceptional possibility to award grants
without a call for proposals to bodies with a de facto or de jure monopoly should only be used where the bodies
concerned are the only ones capable of implementing the relevant types of activities or have been vested with such
a monopoly by law or by a public authority.
(216) In the framework of moving towards e-grants and e-procurement, applicants and tenderers should be asked to
provide a proof of their legal status and financial viability only once within a specific period and should not be
required to resubmit supporting documents in each award procedure. It is therefore necessary to align the
requirements for the number of years for which documents will be requested under grant award procedures and
procurement procedures.
(217) A beneficiary of a grant can provide financial support to a third party based on the fulfilment of certain conditions,
and the amount paid to any third party should not exceed EUR 60 000. It should be possible to exceed that amount
where achieving the objectives of the action would otherwise be impossible or overly difficult. In order to allow
more flexibility for implementing the budget in crisis and emergency situations, it should also be possible to exceed
that amount without case-by-case justification in the cases of humanitarian aid, emergency support operations, civil
protection operations or crisis management aid. The authorising officer should report on such cases.
(218) Where the implementation of an action or a work programme requires a beneficiary to carry out procurement, it
should be clarified that any beneficiary can use its own purchasing practices provided they ensure best value for
money, or as appropriate, lowest price, irrespective of whether the beneficiary awards a public contract and is
a contracting authority within the meaning of this Regulation. The definition of contract should be amended
accordingly.
(219) As a valuable type of financial support not related to predictable costs, the use of prizes should be facilitated and the
applicable rules should be clarified. Prizes should be seen as complementing, not substituting, other funding
instruments such as grants.
(220) In order to allow for the more flexible implementation of prizes, the obligation under Regulation (EU, Euratom)
No 966/2012 to publish contests for prizes with a unit value of EUR 1 000 000 or more in the statements
accompanying the draft budget should be replaced by an obligation to submit prior information to the European
Parliament and to the Council and to explicitly mention such prizes in the financing decision.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 25/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(221) Prizes should be awarded in accordance with the principles of transparency and equal treatment. In that context, the
minimum characteristics of contests should be laid down, in particular the arrangements for paying the prize to the
winners after its award, and the appropriate means of publication It is also necessary to establish a clearly defined
award procedure, from submission of the applications to the provision of information to applicants and notification
of the winning applicant, which mirrors the grant award procedure.
(222) This Regulation should lay down the principles and conditions applicable to financial instruments, budgetary
guarantees and financial assistance and the rules on the limitation of the financial liability of the Union, the fight
against fraud and money laundering, the winding down of financial instruments and reporting.
(223) In recent years the Union has increasingly used financial instruments that allow a higher leverage of the budget to be
achieved but, at the same time, they generate a financial risk for the budget. Those financial instruments include not
only the financial instruments covered by Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, but also other instruments, such
as budgetary guarantees and financial assistance, that previously have been governed only by the rules established in
their respective basic acts. It is important to establish a common framework to ensure the homogeneity of the
principles applicable to that set of instruments and to regroup them under a new Title in this Regulation, comprising
sections on budgetary guarantees and on financial assistance to Member States or third countries in addition to the
existing rules applicable to financial instruments.
(224) Financial instruments and budgetary guarantees can be valuable in multiplying the effect of Union funds when those
funds are pooled with other funds and include a leverage effect. Financial instruments and budgetary guarantees
should only be implemented if there is no risk of distortion of competition in the internal market or inconsistency
with State aid rules.
(225) Within the framework of the annual appropriations authorised by the European Parliament and by the Council for
a given programme, financial instruments and budgetary guarantees should be used on the basis of an ex ante
evaluation demonstrating that they are effective for the achievement of the policy objectives of the Union.
(226) Financial instruments, budgetary guarantees and financial assistance should be authorised by means of a basic act.
Where in duly justified cases financial instruments are established without a basic act, they should be authorised by
the European Parliament and by the Council in the budget.
(227) The instruments that potentially fall under Title X, such as loans, guarantees, equity investments, quasi-equity
investment and risk-sharing instruments, should be defined. The definition of ‘risk-sharing instruments’ should allow
for the inclusion of credit enhancements for project bonds, covering the debt service risk of a project and mitigating
the credit risk of bond holders through credit enhancements in the form of a loan or a guarantee.
(228) Any repayment from a financial instrument or budgetary guarantee should be used for the instrument or guarantee
which produced the repayment with a view to enhancing the efficiency of that instrument or guarantee, unless
otherwise specified in the basic act, and should be taken into account when proposing future appropriations to that
instrument or guarantee.
(229) This Regulation provides that the Commission is empowered, in the relevant basic act, to borrow on behalf of the
Union or Euratom for the purpose of on-lending the corresponding amounts to beneficiary Member States or third
countries under the conditions applicable to the borrowings. In that regard, the cash flows between the borrowed
funds and the loans are matched one-to-one. This means that the Union should carry out market operations based
on disbursement needs for each specific case of lending, which limits the possibility to coherently plan various
borrowing operations and to structure maturities to achieve the best costs.
(230) Financing individual programmes of financial assistance through separate funding methods creates cost and
complexity as different programmes of financial assistance compete for a limited number of funding opportunities.
It fragments the supply of Union debt securities and reduces liquidity and investor interest in the separate
programmes, even though all Union debt securities have the same high credit quality. Financial assistance should
therefore be organised under a single funding method that enhances the liquidity of Union bonds and the
attractiveness and cost-effectiveness of Union issuance.
26/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(231) Recent experience with the funding needs for Ukraine has highlighted the disadvantages of a fragmented approach to
the organisation of Union debt. In order to strengthen the Union’s position as an issuer of euro-denominated debt, it
is essential that all new issuances be organised through a single funding method, except in duly justified cases, such
as Euratom issuance, small issuance and the funding of programmes of financial assistance for which the basic acts
entered into force before 9 November 2022.
(232) The model for a single funding method, and most elements of the infrastructure needed for its implementation, have
already been established in the form of a diversified funding strategy under Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053. That
strategy has allowed the successful mobilisation of funds for grants and loans under Regulation (EU) 2021/241 and
for a range of other Union programmes referred to in Council Regulation (EU) 2020/2094 (34). In view of the
expected complexity of operations needed to satisfy the urgent financing needs of Ukraine, and to anticipate possible
future borrowing and lending operations, it is appropriate to establish a diversified funding strategy as the single
funding method for implementation of borrowing operations.
(233) The use of a diversified funding strategy should allow the flexible implementation of the funding programme, while
fully respecting the principles of budgetary neutrality and budgetary balance as set out in Article 310(1) TFEU. The
costs of the funding programme should be fully borne by the beneficiaries based on a single cost allocation
methodology that ensures the transparent and proportional allocation of costs. Repayment obligations should
remain with the beneficiaries of the financial assistance, in compliance with this Regulation.
(234) The implementation of a diversified funding strategy would require a single set of rules to be followed in respect of
all borrowing and lending programmes relying on it.
(235) A diversified funding strategy should provide the Commission with more flexibility concerning the timing and the
maturity of single funding transactions and allow regular and steady disbursements to different beneficiary countries.
Such a strategy should be based on the pooling of funding instruments. This would give the Commission flexibility
to organise payments to the beneficiaries independently of market conditions at the time of disbursement, while also
reducing the risk that the Commission would have to raise fixed amounts in volatile or adverse conditions.
(236) Giving the Commission that flexibility would require putting into place a common liquidity pool. Such a centralised
liquidity function would render the Union’s funding capacity more resilient and able to withstand temporary
mismatches between all inflows and outflows, based on a robust liquidity forecasting capacity.
(237) The Commission should implement all necessary transactions aiming at a regular capital market presence, at
achieving the best possible funding costs and at facilitating transactions in debt securities of the Union and Euratom.
(238) In extending the diversified funding strategy to a wider range of programmes, it is therefore appropriate for the
Commission to establish the necessary arrangements for its implementation. Those arrangements should comprise
a governance framework, risk management procedures, and a cost allocation methodology, which should respect
Article 223(4), point (e), of this Regulation. To ensure transparency, the Commission should regularly and
comprehensively inform the European Parliament and the Council about all aspects of its borrowing and debt
management strategy.
(239) In the interest of legal certainty and clarity in respect of already granted financial assistance and in respect of
macro-financial assistance under Regulation (EU) 2022/2463 of the European Parliament and of the Council (35), the
rules in this Regulation concerning diversified funding strategy should only apply to programmes of financial
assistance for which the basic acts enter into force on or after 9 November 2022.
(240) It is important that the audited financial statements for financial instruments and budgetary guarantees implemented
under indirect management be provided in time for the Court of Auditors to take them into account when making
its observations on the provisional accounts.
(34) Council Regulation (EU) 2020/2094 of 14 December 2020 establishing a European Union Recovery Instrument to support the
recovery in the aftermath of the COVID-19 crisis (OJ L 433 I, 22.12.2020, p. 23).
(35) Regulation (EU) 2022/2463 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 establishing an instrument for
providing support to Ukraine for 2023 (macro-financial assistance +) (OJ L 322, 16.12.2022, p. 1).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 27/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(241) It is appropriate to recognise the alignment of interests in pursuing policy objectives of the Union and, in particular,
that the EIB and the EIF have the specific expertise to implement financial instruments and budgetary guarantees.
(242) The EIB and the EIF, acting as a group, should have the possibility to transfer part of the implementation to each
other, where such transfer might benefit the implementation of a given action and as further defined in the relevant
agreement with the Commission.
(243) For consistency and in order to take into account the Multiannual Financial Framework for 2021 to 2027, for
financial instruments and budgetary guarantees, it is necessary to clarify certain provisions on reporting by persons
or entities implementing Union funds under indirect management, on the application of Title X in case of
combination thereof with ancillary support from the budget, including grants, and in combination with Union funds
implemented under shared management.
(244) It should be clarified that, where financial instruments or budgetary guarantees are combined with ancillary forms of
support from the budget, the rules on financial instruments and budgetary guarantees should apply to the whole
measure. Such rules should be complemented, where applicable, by specific requirements set out in sector-specific
rules.
(245) The implementation of financial instruments and budgetary guarantees financed by the budget should adhere to the
Union policy on non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes, and updates thereto, as laid down in relevant legal
acts of the Union and in Council conclusions, in particular the Council conclusions of 8 November 2016 on the
criteria for and process leading to the establishment of the EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax
purposes (36) and the Annex thereto, as well as the Council conclusions of 5 December 2017 on the EU list of
non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes (37) and the Annexes thereto.
(246) Budgetary guarantees and financial assistance to Member States or third countries are generally off-budget
operations that have a significant impact on the balance sheet of the Union. While remaining generally off-budget
operations, their inclusion in this Regulation provides a stronger protection of the financial interests of the Union
and a clearer framework for their authorisation, management and accounting.
(247) The Union launched important initiatives based on budgetary guarantees such as the European Fund for Strategic
Investments (EFSI) or the European Fund for Sustainable Development (EFSD). The characteristics of those
instruments are that they generate a contingent liability for the Union and imply the provisioning of funds to make
available a liquidity cushion that allows the budget to respond in an orderly manner to the payment obligations that
might arise from those contingent liabilities. In order to guarantee the credit rating of the Union and, hence, its
capacity to deliver effective financing, it is essential that the authorisation, provisioning and monitoring of
contingent liabilities follow a robust set of rules that should be applied to all budgetary guarantees.
(248) The contingent liabilities arising from budgetary guarantees can cover a wide range of financing and investment
operations. The possibility of a budgetary guarantee being called cannot be scheduled with full certainty on a yearly
basis as in the case of loans that have a defined schedule for repayment. It is, therefore, indispensable to set up
a framework for the authorisation and monitoring of contingent liabilities ensuring full respect, at any moment, for
the ceiling for annual payment appropriations set out in Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053.
(249) That framework should also provide for management and control, including regular reporting on the financial
exposure of the Union. The rate of provisioning of financial liabilities should be set on the basis of a proper risk
assessment of the financial risks arising from the related instrument. The sustainability of the contingent liabilities
should be assessed annually in the context of the budgetary procedure. An early warning mechanism should be
established to avoid a shortage of provisions to cover financial liabilities.
(250) The increasing use of financial instruments, budgetary guarantees and financial assistance requires a significant
volume of payment appropriations to be mobilised and provisioned. In order to deliver leverage while ensuring an
adequate level of protection against financial liabilities, it is important to optimise the amount of provisioning
required and to achieve efficiency gains by pooling those provisions into a common provisioning fund. In addition,
the more flexible use of those pooled provisions permits an effective global provisioning rate that delivers the
protection requested with an optimised amount of resources.
(36) OJ C 461, 10.12.2016, p. 2.
(37) OJ C 438, 19.12.2017, p. 5.
28/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(251) The rules applicable to provisioning and to the common provisioning fund should provide a solid internal control
framework. The guidelines applicable to the management of the resources in the common provisioning fund should
be established by the Commission after having consulted the accounting officer of the Commission. The authorising
officers of the financial instruments, budgetary guarantees or financial assistance should actively monitor the
financial liabilities under their responsibility and the financial manager of the resources of the common provisioning
fund should manage the cash and the assets in the fund following the rules and procedures set out by the accounting
officer of the Commission.
(252) Budgetary guarantees and financial assistance should follow the same set of principles established for financial
instruments. Budgetary guarantees, in particular, should be irrevocable, unconditional and on demand. They should
be implemented under indirect management or, only in exceptional cases, under direct management. They should
only cover financing and investment operations and their counterparts should contribute their own resources to the
operations covered.
(253) Financial assistance to Member States or third countries should take the form of a loan, of a credit line or any other
instrument deemed appropriate to ensure the effectiveness of the support. To that end, the Commission should be
empowered in the relevant basic act to borrow the necessary funds on the capital markets or from financial
institutions, avoiding the involvement of the Union in any transformation of maturities that would expose it to an
interest risk or to any other commercial risk.
(254) The provisions related to financial instruments should apply as soon as possible in order to achieve the
simplification and effectiveness sought. The provisions related to the budgetary guarantees and to financial
assistance, as well as to the common provisioning fund, should apply as from the post-2020 multiannual financial
framework. That calendar will allow a thorough preparation of the new tools for managing contingent liabilities. It
will also permit an alignment between the principles set out in Title X and, on the one hand, the proposal for the
post-2020 multiannual financial framework and, on the other hand, the specific programmes related to that
framework.
(255) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (38) lays down rules for,
inter alia, the funding of political parties and political foundations at European level, in particular with regard to
funding conditions, the award and distribution of funding, donations and contributions, financing of campaigns for
elections to the European Parliament, reimbursable expenditure, the prohibition of certain funding, accounts,
reporting and audit, implementation and control, penalties, cooperation between the Authority for European
political parties and foundations, the Authorising Officer of the European Parliament and Member States, and
transparency.
(256) Rules should be included in this Regulation on contributions from the budget to European political parties as
envisaged by Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014.
(257) The financial support given to European political parties should take the form of a specific contribution, to match
the specific needs of those parties.
(258) Although financial support is awarded without an annual work programme being required, European political
parties should justify ex post the sound use of Union funding. In particular, the authorising officer responsible should
verify if the funding has been used to pay reimbursable expenditure as established in the call for contributions within
the time limits laid down in this Regulation. Contributions to European political parties should be spent by the end
of the financial year following that of their award, after which, any unspent funding should be recovered by the
authorising officer responsible.
(259) Union funding awarded to finance the operating costs of European political parties should not be used for other
purposes than those established in Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014, in particular to directly or indirectly
finance third parties such as national political parties. European political parties should use the contributions to pay
a percentage of current and future expenditure and not expenditure or debts incurred before the submission of their
applications for contributions.
(260) The award of contributions should also be simplified and adapted to the specificities of European political parties, in
particular by the absence of selection criteria, the establishment of a single full pre-financing payment as a general
rule, and by the possibility to use lump sums, flat-rate financing and unit costs.
(38) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the statute and
funding of European political parties and European political foundations (OJ L 317, 4.11.2014, p. 1).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 29/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(261) The contributions from the budget should be suspended, reduced or terminated if European political parties infringe
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014.
(262) Penalties that are based both on this Regulation and on Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1141/2014 should be imposed
in a coherent way and should respect the principle of ne bis in idem. In accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom)
No 1141/2014, administrative and/or financial penalties provided for by this Regulation are not to be imposed in
one of the cases for which penalties have already been imposed on the basis of Regulation (EU, Euratom)
No 1141/2014.
(263) This Regulation should establish a general framework under which budget support can be used as an instrument in
the field of external actions including the obligation for the third country to provide the Commission with adequate
and timely information to evaluate the fulfilment of the agreed conditions and provisions ensuring the protection of
the financial interests of the Union.
(264) In order to reinforce the role of the European Parliament and of the Council, the procedure for establishing Union
trust funds should be clarified. It is also necessary to specify the principles applicable to the contributions to Union
trust funds, in particular the importance of securing contributions from other donors which justify their
establishment with regard to added value. It is also necessary to clarify the responsibilities of the financial actors and
of the board of the Union trust fund and to define rules ensuring a fair representation of the participating donors on
the board of the Union trust fund and a mandatory vote in favour by the Commission for the use of the funds. It is
also important to set out in more detail the reporting requirements applicable to Union trust funds.
(265) The Union should be able to participate in global initiatives, when such participation contributes to the achievement
of Union policy objectives. In order to provide a suitable legal framework for Union participation in global
initiatives, Union contribution to such initiatives should be included as a new budget implementation instrument.
The use of this new financial vehicle would be subject to conditions, the fulfilment of which would ensure a level of
protection comparable to other budget implementation instruments. Such conditions should include the existence of
appropriate internal and external systems to combat fraud and irregularities, whereby the systems operated by
implementing entities of the global initiative should be considered as external systems. The use of the provisions
related to global initiatives should be limited to cases where other budget implementation instruments do not enable
the achievement of the respective Union policy objectives with the same scale and impact. Where possible and
appropriate, the Commission should join any governance board or equivalent steering committee of a global
initiative in order to ensure effective representation of the Union interest. In the interests of transparency and
effective decision-making, the Commission should, as early as possible, provide detailed information to the European
Parliament and the Council on any intended contribution to a global initiative, so as to enable them to give that
information due consideration.
(266) In order to adapt to the progress on digitalisation, the lists of external experts drawn up following a call for
expression of interest should be valid longer than the duration of the multiannual programme provided a rotation of
the experts is ensured and new experts are able to express their interest. In addition, it is necessary to allow Union
institutions to attract highly skilled external experts in order to ensure the evaluation process and the specific
opinions and advice provided by the experts is of high quality. In order to successfully compete with other actors on
the market, the Union institutions should be allowed to offer more competitive remuneration in exceptional and
duly justified cases. Finally, in the interest of legal certainty, the rules applicable to remunerated external experts
should be clarified to mirror the different steps of the award procedure.
(267) In order to provide a clear legal framework for Union institutions to donate services, supplies or works,
non-financial donations should be included as a new budget implementation instrument. This instrument should
not be confused with the general framework of support provided by the Union to third countries which is of
a broader nature but can include non-financial donations. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of
Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, such an instrument should provide a stable legal basis in particular for
future crisis and emergency situations and ensure that the Union institutions have the appropriate budget support
tools to help Member States, other persons and entities when support is most needed. That instrument should be
implemented under direct management or under indirect management by a Union body. Related provisions, such as
definitions, suspension, termination and reduction, and evaluation committee should be adjusted accordingly. In the
interest of sound financial management, non-perishable supplies financed from administrative appropriations
should not be donated before they have partially depreciated in value.
30/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(268) Similar to the introduction of non-financial donations, Union institutions should be able to award prizes which are
not financial. This is also important in order to allow contests among young people who do not have a bank account
in their Member State, but who can easily receive their reward in a practical form. For this purpose, the definition of
and the provisions on ‘prizes’ should be adjusted accordingly.
(269) In line with the streamlining of the existing rules and in order to avoid undue repetition, the special provisions set
out in Part Two of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, applicable to the EAGF, to research, to external actions
and to specific Union funds, should only be introduced in the relevant parts of this Regulation, provided that the
provisions are still used and relevant.
(270) The provisions on the presentation of accounts and accounting should be simplified and clarified. It is therefore
appropriate to group together all provisions on annual accounts and other financial reporting.
(271) The deadlines for the observations by the Court of Auditors on the provisional accounts and for the submission of
the final accounts should be adjusted to take into account the timetable of the discharge procedure.
(272) The accounts of all the Union’s revenue and expenditure, including assigned revenue and the related specific items of
expenditure, the resulting balance and the assets and liabilities of the Union shown in the balance sheet, including
those arising from borrowing and lending operations, should be covered in the discharge decision. Likewise, the
examination by the Court of Auditors of all revenue should include assigned revenue and the related items of
expenditure.
(273) The manner in which Union institutions currently report on building projects to the European Parliament and to the
Council should be improved. Union institutions should be allowed to finance new building projects with the revenue
received for buildings already sold. Consequently, a reference to the provisions on internal assigned revenue should
be introduced in the provisions on building projects. This would allow meeting the changing needs in the building
policy of Union institutions, while saving costs and introducing more flexibility.
(274) In its Communication on the European Green Deal, the Commission encourages the renovation of buildings in order
to reduce their emissions and make them more energy efficient. Taking into account the rapid evolution of the
market for energy efficient buildings, there is an acute need for Union institutions to incorporate the European Green
Deal commitments in their own building policy and to renovate their buildings, prioritising the most energy-efficient
investments. In addition, the recent development of working methods accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic
requires adapting the Union institutions’ office stock in order to develop a dynamic office policy. As a consequence,
financing of structural renovations by loans should be allowed, provided that it leads to savings, in accordance with
the principle of sound financial management. The European Parliament and the Council should receive sufficient
information for the purposes of their prior approval, including on the added value of the envisaged structural
renovation and its contribution to the green transition. The interpretation of the concept of new building projects
should be broadened and, in particular, include projects concerning structural renovation.
(275) In order to adapt the rules applicable to certain Union bodies, the detailed rules on procurement and the detailed
conditions and the minimum ratio for the effective provisioning rate, the power to adopt acts in accordance with
Article 290 TFEU should be delegated to the Commission in respect of the framework financial regulation for bodies
set up under the TFEU and the Euratom Treaty, the model financial regulation for public-private partnership bodies,
amendments to Annex I to this Regulation, the detailed conditions and methodology for the calculation of the
effective provisioning rate and the amendment of the defined minimum ratio of the effective provisioning rate,
which should not be set at a level lower than 85 %. It is of particular importance that the Commission carry out
appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level, and that those consultations be
conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on
Better Law-Making. In particular, to ensure equal participation in the preparation of delegated acts, the European
Parliament and the Council receive all documents at the same time as Member States’ experts, and their experts
systematically have access to meetings of Commission expert groups dealing with the preparation of delegated acts.
(276) Some modifications regarding the provision of access by the Commission to data on recipients for the purposes of
publication, and regarding the electronic recording and storage of data on recipients and their beneficial owners and
access by the single integrated IT system for data-mining and risk-scoring to analyse those data should apply only to
programmes adopted under and financed as from the post-2027 multiannual financial framework in order to ensure
a smooth transition by allowing sufficient time for the necessary adaptation of electronic data systems and of
relevant agreements, as well as the provision of guidance and training.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 31/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(277) The Commission should present by the end of 2027 an assessment of the readiness of the single integrated IT
system. That assessment should evaluate whether interoperability is ensured with relevant IT systems and databases,
including those of Member States, allowing for an automatic transfer of the relevant information in real time where
feasible, and avoiding duplication of reporting; whether the risk indicators used by the single integrated IT system are
sufficiently uniform, objective, proportionate, and necessary for risk assessment, and are based on reliable sources of
information; whether the single integrated IT system permits using artificial intelligence for analysing and
interpreting data; and whether the single integrated IT complies with general data protection principles.
(278) The European Data Protection Supervisor was consulted in accordance with Article 42(1) of Regulation (EU)
2018/1725 and delivered an opinion on 7 July 2022.
(279) This Regulation should enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
European Union,
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
TITLE I
SUBJECT MATTER, DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Article 1
Subject matter
This Regulation lays down the rules for the establishment and the implementation of the general budget of the European
Union and of the European Atomic Energy Community (the ‘budget’) and the presentation and auditing of their accounts.
Article 2
Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply:
(1) ‘applicant’ means a natural person or an entity with or without legal personality who has submitted an application in
a grant award procedure, in a non-financial donation award procedure or in a contest for prizes;
(2) ‘application document’ means a tender, a request to participate, an application further to a call for expression of
interest, a grant application, an application for a non-financial donation or an application in a contest for prizes;
(3) ‘award procedure’ means a procurement procedure, a grant award procedure, a contest for prizes, an award procedure
for a non-financial donation or a procedure for the selection of experts or persons or entities implementing the budget
pursuant to Article 62(1), first subparagraph, point (c);
(4) ‘basic act’ means a legal act, other than a recommendation or an opinion, which provides a legal basis for an action
and for the implementation of the corresponding expenditure entered in the budget or of the budgetary guarantee or
financial assistance backed by the budget, and which may take any of the following forms:
(a) in implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and the Treaty establishing the
European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom Treaty), the form of a regulation, a directive or a decision within
the meaning of Article 288 TFEU; or
(b) in implementation of Title V of the Treaty on European Union (TEU), one of the forms specified in Articles 28(1)
and 31(2), Article 33, and Articles 42(4) and 43(2) TEU;
(5) ‘beneficiary’ means a natural person or an entity with or without legal personality with whom a grant agreement has
been signed;
32/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(6) ‘blending facility or platform’ means a cooperation framework established between the Commission and development
or other public finance institutions with a view to combining non-repayable forms of support and/or financial
instruments and/or budgetary guarantees from the budget and repayable forms of support from development or other
public finance institutions, as well as from private-sector finance institutions and private-sector investors;
(7) ‘budget implementation’ means the carrying out of activities relating to the management, monitoring, control and
auditing of budget appropriations in accordance with the methods provided for in Article 62;
(8) ‘budgetary commitment’ means the operation by which the authorising officer responsible reserves the budget
appropriations necessary to cover subsequent payments to honour legal commitments;
(9) ‘budgetary guarantee’ means an instrument through which the Union supports a programme of actions by taking on
the budget an irrevocable and unconditional financial obligation that can be called upon should a specified event
materialise during the implementation of the programme, and that remains valid for the duration of the maturity of
the commitments made under the supported programme;
(10) ‘building contract’ means a contract covering the purchase, exchange, long lease, usufruct, leasing, rental or hire
purchase, with or without option to buy, of land, buildings or other immovable property. It covers both existing
buildings and buildings before completion provided that the candidate has obtained a valid building permit for it. It
does not cover buildings designed in accordance with the specifications of the contracting authority that are covered
by works contracts;
(11) ‘candidate’ means an economic operator that has sought an invitation or has been invited to take part in a restricted
procedure, a competitive procedure with negotiation, a competitive dialogue, an innovation partnership, a design
contest or a negotiated procedure;
(12) ‘central purchasing body’ means a contracting authority providing centralised purchasing activities and, where
applicable, ancillary purchasing activities;
(13) ‘check’ means the verification of a specific aspect of a revenue or expenditure operation;
(14) ‘concession contract’ means a contract for pecuniary interest concluded in writing between one or more economic
operators and one or more contracting authorities within the meaning of Articles 177 and 181, in order to entrust the
execution of works or the provision and management of services to an economic operator (the ‘concession’), and
where:
(a) the remuneration consists either solely in the right to exploit the works or services or in that right together with
payment;
(b) the award of the concession contract involves the transfer to the concessionaire of an operating risk in exploiting
those works or services encompassing demand risk or supply risk, or both. The concessionaire shall be deemed to
assume an operating risk where, under normal operating conditions, there is no guarantee of recouping the
investments made or the costs incurred in operating the works or the services concerned;
(15) ‘constitution phase’ means the period during which the global provisioning is paid into the common provisioning
fund;
(16) ‘contingent liability’ means a potential financial obligation that could be incurred depending on the outcome of
a future event;
(17) ‘contract’ means a public contract or a concession contract or, for Title VIII, a subcontract or purchase contract
concluded by a beneficiary;
(18) ‘contractor’ means an economic operator with whom a public contract has been signed;
(19) ‘contribution agreement’ means an agreement concluded with persons or entities implementing Union funds pursuant
to Article 62(1), first subparagraph, points (c)(ii) to (viii);
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 33/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(20) ‘control’ means any measure taken to provide reasonable assurance regarding the effectiveness, efficiency and
economy of operations, the reliability of reporting, the safeguarding of assets and information, the prevention and
detection and correction of fraud and irregularities and their follow-up, and the adequate management of the risks
relating to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multiannual character of
programmes as well as the nature of the payments concerned. Controls may involve various checks, as well as the
implementation of any policies and procedures to achieve the objectives referred to in the first sentence;
(21) ‘counterpart’ means the party that is granted a budgetary guarantee;
(22) ‘crisis’ means:
(a) a situation of immediate or imminent danger threatening to escalate into an armed conflict or to destabilise
a country or its neighbourhood;
(b) a situation caused by natural disasters, man-made crisis such as wars and other conflicts or extraordinary
circumstances having comparable effects related, inter alia, to climate change, public and animal health, food
security and food safety emergencies and global health threats, such as epidemics and pandemics, environmental
degradation, privation of access to energy and natural resources or extreme poverty;
(23) ‘decommitment’ means an operation whereby the authorising officer responsible cancels wholly or partly the
reservation of appropriations previously made by means of a budgetary commitment;
(24) ‘dynamic purchasing system’ means a completely electronic process for making commonly used purchases of items
generally available on the market;
(25) ‘economic operator’ means any natural or legal person, including a public entity, or a group of such persons, who
offers to supply products, execute works or provide services or supply immovable property;
(26) ‘equity investment’ means the provision of capital to a company, invested directly or indirectly in return for total or
partial ownership of that company and where the equity investor may assume some management control of the
company and may share the company’s profits;
(27) ‘European office’ means an administrative structure set up by the Commission, or by the Commission with one or
more other Union institutions, to perform specific cross-cutting tasks;
(28) ‘final administrative decision’ means a decision of an administrative authority having final and binding effect in
accordance with the applicable law;
(29) ‘financial asset’ means any asset in the form of cash, an equity instrument of a publicly or privately held entity or
a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from such entity;
(30) ‘financial instrument’ means a Union measure of financial support provided from the budget to address one or more
specific policy objectives of the Union which may take the form of equity or quasi-equity investments, loans or
guarantees, or other risk-sharing instruments, and which may, where appropriate, be combined with other forms of
financial support or with funds under shared management or funds of the European Development Fund (EDF);
(31) ‘financial liability’ means a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity;
(32) ‘foreign subsidy’ means a financial contribution within the meaning of Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) 2022/2560
provided by a third country that falls within the description provided in Article 3(1) of that Regulation;
(33) ‘framework contract’ means a public contract concluded between one or more economic operators and one or more
contracting authorities, the purpose of which is to establish the terms governing specific contracts under it to be
awarded during a given period, in particular with regard to price and, where appropriate, the quantity envisaged;
34/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(34) ‘global provisioning’ means the total amount of resources deemed necessary over the entire lifetime of a budgetary
guarantee or financial assistance to a third country as a result of applying the provisioning rate referred to in Article
214(1) to the amount of the budgetary guarantee or financial assistance to a third country authorised by the basic act
referred to in Article 213(1), points (b) and (c);
(35) ‘grant’ means a financial contribution by way of donation. Where such a contribution is provided under direct
management, it shall be governed by Title VIII;
(36) ‘guarantee’ means a written commitment to assume responsibility for all or part of a third party’s debt or obligation or
for the successful performance by that third party of its obligations if an event occurs which triggers such guarantee,
such as a loan default;
(37) ‘guarantee on demand’ means a guarantee that must be honoured by the guarantor upon the counterpart’s demand,
notwithstanding any deficiencies in the enforceability of the underlying obligation;
(38) ‘in-kind contribution’ means non-financial resources made available free of charge by third parties to a beneficiary;
(39) ‘legal commitment’ means an act whereby the authorising officer responsible enters into or establishes an obligation
which results in a subsequent payment and the recognition of expenditure covered by a budgetary commitment, or in
an obligation to provide a non-financial donation, and which includes specific agreements and contracts concluded
under financial framework partnership agreements and framework contracts;
(40) ‘leverage effect’ means the amount of reimbursable financing provided to eligible final recipients divided by the
amount of the Union contribution;
(41) ‘liquidity risk’ means the risk that a financial asset held in the common provisioning fund might not be sold during
a certain period of time without incurring a significant loss;
(42) ‘loan’ means an agreement which obliges the lender to make available to the borrower an agreed amount of money for
an agreed period and under which the borrower is obliged to repay that amount within the agreed period;
(43) ‘low value grant’ means a grant lower than or equal to EUR 60 000;
(44) ‘Member State organisation’ means an entity established in a Member State as a public law body, or as a body governed
by private law entrusted with a public service mission and provided with adequate financial guarantees from the
Member State;
(45) ‘method of implementation’ means any of the methods of budget implementation referred to in Article 62, that is
direct management, indirect management and shared management;
(46) ‘multi-donor action’ means any action where Union funds are pooled with at least one other donor;
(47) ‘multiple sourcing procurement’ means procurement where it is intended to award multiple contracts concluded in
writing in parallel between multiple economic operators and one or more contracting authorities within the meaning
of Article 177(1), in order to entrust the execution of identical or quasi-identical services, supplies or works to be
performed in parallel by different contractors;
(48) ‘multiplier effect’ means the investment by eligible final recipients divided by the amount of the Union contribution;
(49) ‘non-governmental organisation’ means a voluntary, independent from government, non-profit organisation, which is
not a political party or a trade union;
(50) ‘output’ means the deliverables generated by the action determined in accordance with sector-specific rules;
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 35/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(51) ‘participant’ means a candidate or tenderer in a procurement procedure, an applicant in a grant award procedure or in
a non-financial donation award procedure, an expert in a procedure for selection of experts, an applicant in a contest
for prizes or a person or entity participating in a procedure for implementing Union funds pursuant to Article 62(1),
first subparagraph, point (c);
(52) ‘presumed successful tenderer’ means any tenderer in a procurement procedure that is ranked first, subject to further
checks and provision of supporting documents on exclusion and/or selection criteria in order to be proposed by the
evaluation committee as a successful tenderer. Where the award procedure foresees to award the contract to several
tenderers, then the presumed successful tenderer shall be deemed to refer to the best ranked tenderers equal to the
number of contracts to be awarded.
(53) ‘prize’ means a contribution given as a reward following a contest. Where such a contribution is provided under direct
management, it shall be governed by Title IX;
(54) ‘procurement’ means the acquisition by means of a contract of works, supplies or services and the acquisition or rental
of land, buildings or other immovable property, by one or more contracting authorities from economic operators
chosen by those contracting authorities;
(55) ‘procurement document’ means any document produced or referred to by the contracting authority to describe or
determine elements of the procurement procedure, including:
(a) the publicity measures set out in Article 166;
(b) the invitation to tender;
(c) the tender specifications, including the technical specifications and the relevant criteria, or the descriptive
documents in the case of a competitive dialogue;
(d) the draft contract;
(56) ‘professional conflicting interests’ means a situation in which the previous or ongoing professional activities of an
economic operator affect or risk affecting its capacity to perform a contract in an independent, impartial and objective
manner;
(57) ‘public contract’ means a contract for pecuniary interest concluded in writing between one or more economic
operators and one or more contracting authorities within the meaning of Articles 177 and 181, in order to obtain,
against payment of a price paid in whole or in part from the budget, the supply of movable or immovable assets, the
execution of works or the provision of services, comprising:
(a) building contracts;
(b) supply contracts;
(c) works contracts;
(d) service contracts;
(58) ‘quasi-equity investment’ means a type of financing that ranks between equity and debt, having a higher risk than
senior debt and a lower risk than common equity and which can be structured as debt, typically unsecured and
subordinated and in some cases convertible into equity, or into preferred equity;
(59) ‘recipient’ means a beneficiary, a contractor, a remunerated external expert or a person or entity receiving prizes,
non-financial donations or support from the budget under a financial instrument or a budgetary guarantee, or
implementing Union funds pursuant to Article 62(1), first subparagraph, point (c);
(60) ‘repurchase agreement’ means the sale of securities for cash with an agreement to repurchase them on a specified
future date, or on demand;
36/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(61) ‘research and technological development appropriation’ means an appropriation entered either in one of the titles of
the budget relating to the policy areas linked to ‘Indirect research’ or ‘Direct research’ or in a chapter relating to
research activities in another title;
(62) ‘result’ means the effects of the implementation of an action determined in accordance with sector-specific rules;
(63) ‘risk-sharing instrument’ means a financial instrument which allows for the sharing of a defined risk between two or
more entities, where appropriate in exchange for an agreed remuneration;
(64) ‘service contract’ means a contract covering all intellectual and non-intellectual services other than those covered by
supply contracts, works contracts and building contracts;
(65) ‘sound financial management’ means implementation of the budget in accordance with the principles of economy,
efficiency and effectiveness;
(66) ‘Staff Regulations’ means the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment
of Other Servants of the European Union laid down in Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 259/68;
(67) ‘subcontractor’ means an economic operator that is proposed by a candidate or tenderer or contractor to perform part
of a contract or by a beneficiary to perform part of the tasks co-financed by a grant;
(68) ‘subscription’ means sums paid to bodies of which the Union is member, in accordance with the budgetary decisions
and the conditions of payment established by the body concerned;
(69) ‘supply contract’ means a contract covering the purchase, leasing, rental or hire purchase, with or without option to
buy, of products, and which may include, as an incidental matter, siting and installation operations;
(70) ‘technical assistance’ means, without prejudice to sector-specific rules, support and capacity-building activities
necessary for the implementation of a programme or an action, in particular preparatory, management, monitoring,
evaluation, audit and control activities;
(71) ‘tenderer’ means an economic operator that has submitted a tender;
(72) ‘Union’ means the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community, or both, as the context may require;
(73) ‘Union institution’ means the European Parliament, the European Council, the Council, the Commission, the Court of
Justice of the European Union, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee
of the Regions, the European Ombudsman, the European Data Protection Supervisor or the European External Action
Service (the ‘EEAS’); the European Central Bank shall not be considered to be a Union institution;
(74) ‘vendor’ means an economic operator registered in a list of vendors to be invited to submit requests to participate in or
submit tenders;
(75) ‘very low value grant’ means a grant lower than or equal to EUR 15 000;
(76) ‘volunteer’ means a person working on a non-compulsory basis for an organisation without being paid;
(77) ‘a work’ means the outcome of building or civil engineering works taken as a whole that is sufficient in itself to fulfil
an economic or technical function;
(78) ‘works contract’ means a contract covering either:
(a) the execution or both the execution and design of a work; or
(b) the execution or both the execution and design of works related to one of the activities referred to in Annex II to
Directive 2014/24/EU; or
(c) the realisation, by whatever means, of a work corresponding to the requirements specified by the contracting
authority exercising a decisive influence on the type or design of the work.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 37/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
Article 3
Compliance of secondary legislation with this Regulation
1. Provisions concerning the implementation of the revenue and expenditure of the budget, and contained in a basic act,
shall comply with the budgetary principles set out in Title II.
2. Without prejudice to paragraph 1, any proposal or amendment to a proposal submitted to the legislative authority
containing derogations from the provisions of this Regulation other than those set out in Title II, or from delegated acts
adopted pursuant to this Regulation, shall clearly indicate such derogations and shall state the specific reasons justifying
them in the recitals and in the explanatory memorandum of such proposals or amendments.
Article 4
Periods, dates and time limits
Unless otherwise provided in this Regulation, Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 1182/71 (39) shall apply to the
deadlines set out in this Regulation.
Article 5
Protection of personal data
This Regulation is without prejudice to Regulations (EU) 2016/679 and (EU) 2018/1725.
TITLE II
PRINCIPLES
Article 6
Respect for budgetary principles and general regime of conditionality for the protection of the Union budget
1. The budget shall be established and implemented in accordance with the principles of unity, budgetary accuracy,
annuality, equilibrium, unit of account, universality, specification, sound financial management and transparency as set out
in this Regulation.
2. The establishment and implementation of the budget shall also comply with the provisions of Regulation (EU,
Euratom) 2020/2092.
3. In the implementation of the budget, Member States and the Commission shall ensure compliance with the Charter of
Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter, and shall respect the Union
values enshrined in Article 2 TEU relevant in the implementation of the budget.
CHAPTER 1
Principles of unity and of budgetary accuracy
Article 7
Scope of the budget
1. For each financial year, the budget shall forecast and authorise all revenue and expenditure considered necessary for
the Union. It shall comprise:
(a) the revenue and expenditure of the Union, including administrative expenditure resulting from the implementation of
the provisions of the TEU relating to the common foreign and security policy (CFSP), and operational expenditure
occasioned by implementation of those provisions where it is charged to the budget;
(39) Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 1182/71 of 3 June 1971 determining the rules applicable to periods, dates and time limits
(OJ L 124, 8.6.1971, p. 1).
38/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(b) the revenue and expenditure of the European Atomic Energy Community.
2. The budget shall contain differentiated appropriations, which consist of commitment appropriations and payment
appropriations, and non-differentiated appropriations.
The appropriations authorised for the financial year shall consist of:
(a) appropriations provided in the budget, including by amending budgets;
(b) appropriations carried over from preceding financial years;
(c) appropriations made available again in accordance with Article 15;
(d) appropriations arising from pre-financing payments which have been repaid in accordance with Article 12(4), point (b);
(e) appropriations provided following the receipt of assigned revenue during the financial year or carried over from
preceding financial years.
3. Commitment appropriations shall cover the total cost of the legal commitments entered into during the financial
year, subject to Article 114(2).
4. Payment appropriations shall cover payments made to honour the legal commitments entered into in the financial
year or preceding financial years. They shall also cover the provisioning of financial liabilities referred to in Article 214.
5. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall not prevent appropriations being committed globally or budgetary
commitments being made in annual instalments as respectively provided for in Article 112(1), first subparagraph, point (b),
and in Article 112(2).
Article 8
Specific rules on the principles of unity and budgetary accuracy
1. All revenue and expenditure shall be booked to a budget line.
2. Without prejudice to authorised expenditure arising from contingent liabilities as provided for in Article 213(2), no
expenditure may be committed or authorised in excess of the authorised appropriations.
3. An appropriation shall be entered in the budget only if it is for an item of expenditure considered necessary.
4. Interest generated by pre-financing payments made from the budget shall not be due to the Union except as otherwise
provided in the contribution agreements or the financing agreements concerned.
CHAPTER 2
Principle of annuality
Article 9
Definition
The appropriations entered in the budget shall be authorised for a financial year which shall run from 1 January to 31
December.
Article 10
Budgetary accounting for revenue and appropriations
1. The revenue of a financial year shall be entered in the accounts for that year on the basis of the amounts collected
during it. However, the own resources for the month of January of the following financial year may be made available in
advance pursuant to Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 609/2014.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 39/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
2. The entries in respect of the Value Added Tax (VAT) and Gross National Income-based own resources may be adjusted
in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 609/2014.
3. The entries in respect of the own resources referred to in Article 2(1), point (c), of Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053
may be adjusted in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/770.
4. Commitments shall be entered in the accounts for a financial year on the basis of the legal commitments entered into
and of the provisioning of financial liabilities referred to in Article 214 made up to 31 December of that year. However, the
global budgetary commitments referred to in Article 112(4) shall be entered in the accounts for a financial year on the basis
of the budgetary commitments up to 31 December of that year.
5. Payments shall be entered in the accounts for a financial year on the basis of the payments made by the accounting
officer by 31 December of that year.
6. By way of derogation from paragraphs 4 and 5:
(a) the expenditure of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) shall be entered in the accounts for a financial
year on the basis of the repayments made by the Commission to Member States by 31 December of that year, provided
that the payment order has reached the accounting officer by 31 January of the following financial year;
(b) expenditure implemented under shared management with the exception of the EAGF shall be entered in the accounts
for a financial year on the basis of the reimbursements made by the Commission to Member States by 31 December of
that year, including the expenditure charged by 31 January of the following financial year as laid down in Articles 30
and 31.
Article 11
Commitment of appropriations
1. The appropriations entered in the budget may be committed with effect from 1 January, once the budget has been
definitively adopted.
2. As of 15 October of the financial year, the following expenditure may be committed in advance against the
appropriations provided for the following financial year:
(a) routine administrative expenditure, provided that such expenditure has been approved in the last budget duly adopted,
and only up to a maximum of one quarter of the total corresponding appropriations decided upon by the European
Parliament and by the Council for the current financial year;
(b) routine management expenditure for the EAGF, provided that the basis for such expenditure is laid down in an existing
basic act, and only up to a maximum of three quarters of the total corresponding appropriations decided upon by the
European Parliament and by the Council for the current financial year.
Article 12
Cancellation and carry-over of appropriations
1. Appropriations which have not been used by the end of the financial year for which they were entered shall be
cancelled, unless they are carried over in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 8.
2. The following appropriations may be carried over by a decision taken pursuant to paragraph 3, but only to the
following financial year:
(a) commitment appropriations and non-differentiated appropriations, for which most of the preparatory stages of the
commitment procedure have been completed by 31 December of the financial year. Such appropriations may be
committed up to 31 March of the following financial year, with the exception of non-differentiated appropriations
related to building projects which may be committed up to 31 December of the following financial year;
(b) appropriations which are necessary when the legislative authority has adopted a basic act in the final quarter of the
financial year and the Commission has been unable to commit the appropriations provided for that purpose by 31
December of that year. Such appropriations may be committed up to 31 December of the following financial year;
40/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(c) payment appropriations which are needed to cover existing commitments or commitments linked to commitment
appropriations carried over, where the payment appropriations provided for in the relevant budget lines for the
following financial year are insufficient;
(d) non-committed appropriations relating to the actions referred to in Article 5(2) of Regulation (EU) 2021/2116.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, point (d), of this paragraph, non-committed appropriations of the
agricultural reserve referred to in Article 16 of Regulation (EU) 2021/2116 shall be carried over to finance the agricultural
reserve in the following financial years for the period referred to in Article 16(2), third subparagraph, of that Regulation
and for any period beyond 2027 provided for in the applicable sector-specific rules.
With regard to the first subparagraph, point (c), of this paragraph, the Union institution concerned shall first use the
appropriations authorised for the current financial year and shall not use the appropriations carried over until the former
are exhausted.
Carry-overs of non-committed appropriations as referred to in the first subparagraph, point (d), of this paragraph shall not
exceed, within a limit of 2 % of the initial appropriations voted by the European Parliament and by the Council, the amount
of the adjustment of direct payments applied in accordance with Article 17 of Regulation (EU) 2021/2116 during the
preceding financial year. Appropriations which are carried over shall be returned to the budget lines which cover the
actions referred to in Article 5(2), point (d), of Regulation (EU) 2021/2116.
3. The Union institution concerned shall take its decision on carry-overs as referred to in paragraph 2 by 15 February of
the following financial year. It shall inform the European Parliament and the Council by 15 March of that year of the
carry-over decision it has taken. It shall also state, for each budget line, how the criteria in paragraph 2, first subparagraph,
points (a), (b) and (c), have been applied to each carry-over.
4. Appropriations shall be automatically carried over in respect of:
(a) appropriations for the Solidarity and Emergency Aid Reserve and for the European Union Solidarity Fund. Such
appropriations may be carried over only to the following financial year and may be used up to 31 December of that
year;
(b) appropriations corresponding to internal assigned revenue. Such appropriations may be carried over only to the
following financial year and may be committed up to 31 December of that year, with the exception of the internal
assigned revenue from lettings and the sale of buildings and land which may be carried over until it is fully used.
Commitment appropriations, as referred to in Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the
Council (40) Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (41) and Regulation (EU)
2021/1060, which are available on 31 December arising from repayments of pre-financing payments may be carried
over until the closure of the programme and used when necessary, provided that other commitment appropriations are
no longer available;
(c) appropriations corresponding to external assigned revenue. Such appropriations shall be fully used by the time all the
operations relating to the programme or action to which they are assigned have been carried out or they may be carried
over and used for the succeeding programme or action. This shall not apply to the revenue referred to in Article 21(2),
point (g)(iii), for which appropriations not committed within five years shall be cancelled;
(d) payment appropriations related to the EAGF resulting from suspensions in accordance with Articles 40, 41 and 42 of
Regulation (EU) 2021/2116.
5. The treatment of external assigned revenue as referred to in paragraph 4, point (c), of this Article resulting from the
participation of European Free Trade Association (EFTA) States in certain Union programmes in accordance with Article
21(2), point (e), shall be in line with Protocol No 32 annexed to the Agreement on the European Economic Area
(EEA Agreement).
(40) Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common
provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural
Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European
Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and
repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 320).
(41) Regulation (EU) No 514/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 laying down general provisions on
the Asylum, migration and Integration Fund and on the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, preventing and
combating crime and crisis management (OJ L 150, 20.5.2014, p. 112).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 41/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
6. In addition to the information provided for in paragraph 3, the Union institution concerned shall submit to the
European Parliament and to the Council information on appropriations which were automatically carried over, including
the amounts involved and the provision of this Article under which the appropriations were carried over.
7. Non-differentiated appropriations legally committed at the end of the financial year shall be paid until the end of the
following financial year.
8. Without prejudice to paragraph 4, appropriations placed in reserve and appropriations for staff expenditure shall not
be carried over. For the purposes of this Article, staff expenditure comprises remuneration and allowances for members and
for staff of Union institutions who are subject to the Staff Regulations.
Article 13
Detailed provisions on cancellation and carry-over of appropriations
1. The commitment appropriations and the non-differentiated appropriations referred to in Article 12(2), first
subparagraph, point (a), may be carried over only if the commitments could not be made before 31 December of the
financial year for reasons not attributable to the authorising officer and if the preparatory stages are sufficiently advanced to
make it reasonable to expect that the commitment will be made by 31 March of the following financial year, or, in relation
to building projects, by 31 December of the following financial year.
2. The preparatory stages referred to in Article 12(2), first subparagraph, point (a), which shall be completed by 31
December of the financial year in order to allow a carry-over to the following financial year, are in particular:
(a) for individual budgetary commitments within the meaning of Article 112(1), first subparagraph, point (a), the
completion of the selection of potential contractors, beneficiaries, prize winners or delegates;
(b) for global budgetary commitments within the meaning of Article 112(1), first subparagraph, point (b), the adoption of
a financing decision or the closing of the consultation of the departments concerned within each Union institution on
the adoption of the financing decision.
3. Appropriations carried over in accordance with Article 12(2) first subparagraph, point (a), which have not been
committed by 31 March of the following financial year, or by 31 December of the following financial year for amounts
relating to building projects, shall be automatically cancelled.
The Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the appropriations cancelled in accordance with
the first subparagraph within one month following the cancellation.
Article 14
Decommitments
1. Where budgetary commitments are decommitted in any financial year after the year in which they were made as
a result of the total or partial non-implementation of the actions for which they were earmarked, the appropriations
corresponding to such decommitments shall be cancelled, unless otherwise provided in Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013,
Regulation (EU) No 223/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (42) and Regulations (EU) No 514/2014, (EU)
2021/1060 and (EU) 2021/2116 and notwithstanding Article 15 of this Regulation.
2. Commitment appropriations referred to in Regulations (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 514/2014,
(EU) 2021/1060 and (EU) 2021/2116 shall be decommitted automatically in accordance with those Regulations.
3. This Article does not apply to external assigned revenue referred to in Article 21(2).
(42) Regulation (EU) No 223/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 on the Fund for European Aid to
the Most Deprived (OJ L 72, 12.3.2014, p. 1).
42/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
Article 15
Making appropriations corresponding to decommitments available again
1. The appropriations corresponding to decommitments referred to in Regulations (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU)
No 223/2014, (EU) No 514/2014, (EU) 2021/1060 and (EU) 2021/2116 may be made available again in the event of
a manifest error attributable solely to the Commission.
To that end, the Commission shall examine decommitments made during the preceding financial year and shall decide, by
15 February of the current financial year, on the basis of requirements, whether it is necessary to make the corresponding
appropriations available again.
2. In addition to the case referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the appropriations corresponding to decommitments
shall be made available again in the event of a decommitment of resources transferred back to the fund from which they
have been initially transferred in line with Article 26 of Regulation (EU) 2021/1060.
3. Commitment appropriations corresponding to the amount of decommitments made as a result of total or partial
non-implementation of corresponding research projects may also be made available again to the benefit of the research
programme the projects belong to or its successor in the context of the budgetary procedure.
Article 16
Rules applicable in the event of late adoption of the budget
1. If the budget has not been definitively adopted at the beginning of the financial year, the procedure set out in the first
paragraph of Article 315 TFEU (the provisional twelfths regime) shall apply. Commitments and payments may be made
within the limits laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article.
2. Commitments may be made per chapter up to a maximum of one quarter of the total appropriations authorised in
the relevant chapter of the budget for the preceding financial year plus one twelfth for each month which has elapsed.
The limit of the appropriations provided for in the draft budget shall not be exceeded.
Payments may be made monthly per chapter up to a maximum of one twelfth of the appropriations authorised in the
relevant chapter of the budget for the preceding financial year. That sum shall not, however, exceed one twelfth of the
appropriations provided for in the same chapter of the draft budget.
3. The appropriations authorised in the relevant chapter of the budget for the preceding financial year, as referred to in
paragraphs 1 and 2, shall be understood as referring to the appropriations voted in the budget, including by amending
budgets, and after adjustment for the transfers made during that financial year.
4. If the continuity of Union action and management needs so require, the Council, acting by qualified majority on
a proposal from the Commission, may authorise expenditure in excess of one provisional twelfth but not exceeding a total
of four provisional twelfths, except in duly justified cases, both for commitments and for payments over and above those
automatically made available in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2. The Council shall without delay forward its decision
on authorisation to the European Parliament.
The decision referred to in the first subparagraph shall enter into force 30 days after its adoption unless the European
Parliament takes any of the following actions:
(a) acting by a majority of its component members, decides to reduce the expenditure before the expiry of the 30 days, in
which case the Commission shall submit a new proposal;
(b) informs the Council and the Commission that it does not wish to reduce the expenditure, in which case the decision
shall enter into force before the expiry of the 30 days.
The additional twelfths shall be authorised in full and shall not be divisible.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 43/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
5. If, for a given chapter, the authorisation of four provisional twelfths granted in accordance with paragraph 4 is not
sufficient to cover the expenditure necessary to avoid a break in continuity of Union action in the area covered by the
chapter in question, authorisation may exceptionally be given to exceed the amount of the appropriations entered in the
corresponding chapter of the budget for the preceding financial year. The European Parliament and the Council shall act in
accordance with the procedures provided for in paragraph 4. However, the overall total of the appropriations available in
the budget of the preceding financial year or in the draft budget, as proposed, shall in no circumstances be exceeded.
CHAPTER 3
Principle of equilibrium
Article 17
Definition and scope
1. Revenue and payment appropriations shall be in balance.
2. The Union and the Union bodies referred to in Articles 70 and 71 shall not raise loans within the framework of the
budget.
Article 18
Balance from financial year
1. The balance from each financial year shall be entered in the budget for the following financial year as revenue in the
event of a surplus or as a payment appropriation in the event of a deficit.
2. The estimates of the revenue or payment appropriations referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be entered in
the budget during the budgetary procedure and in a letter of amendment submitted pursuant to Article 42 of this
Regulation. The estimates shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 1 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2021/768.
3. After the presentation of the provisional accounts for each financial year, any discrepancy between those accounts
and the estimates shall be entered in the budget for the following financial year through an amending budget devoted solely
to that discrepancy. In such a case, the Commission shall submit the draft amending budget simultaneously to the European
Parliament and to the Council within 15 days of submission of the provisional accounts.
CHAPTER 4
Principle of unit of account
Article 19
Use of euro
1. The multiannual financial framework and the budget shall be drawn up and implemented in euro and the accounts
shall be presented in euro. However, for the cash-flow purposes referred to in Article 77, the accounting officer and, in the
case of imprest accounts, the imprest administrators, and, for the needs of the administrative management of the
Commission and the EEAS, the authorising officer responsible, shall be authorised to carry out operations in other
currencies.
2. Without prejudice to specific provisions laid down in sector-specific rules, or in specific contracts, grant agreements,
contribution agreements and financing agreements, conversion by the authorising officer responsible shall be made using
the daily euro exchange rate published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union of the day on which the
payment order or recovery order is drawn up by the authorising department.
If no such daily rate is published, the authorising officer responsible shall use the one referred to in paragraph 3.
3. For the purposes of the accounts provided for in Articles 82, 83 and 84, conversion between the euro and another
currency shall be made using the monthly accounting exchange rate of the euro. That accounting exchange rate shall be
established by the accounting officer of the Commission by means of any source of information regarded as reliable, on the
basis of the exchange rate on the penultimate working day of the month preceding that for which the rate is established.
44/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
4. Currency conversion operations shall be carried out in such a way as to avoid having a significant impact on the level
of the Union co-financing or a detrimental impact on the budget. Where appropriate, the rate of conversion between the
euro and other currencies may be calculated using the average of the daily exchange rate in a given period.
CHAPTER 5
Principle of universality
Article 20
Scope
Without prejudice to Article 21, total revenue shall cover total payment appropriations. Without prejudice to Article 27, all
revenue and expenditure shall be entered in the budget in full without any adjustment against each other.
Article 21
Assigned revenue
1. External assigned revenue and internal assigned revenue shall be used to finance specific items of expenditure.
2. The following shall constitute external assigned revenue:
(a) specific additional financial contributions from Member States including voluntary contributions to Union
programmes, instruments and activities;
(b) appropriations relating to the revenue generated by the Research Fund for Coal and Steel established by Protocol No 37
on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty and on the Research Fund for Coal and Steel, annexed to
the TEU and to the TFEU.
(c) the interest on deposits and the fines provided for in Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/97 (43);
(d) revenue earmarked for a specific purpose, such as income from foundations, subsidies, gifts and bequests, including the
earmarked revenue specific to each Union institution;
(e) financial contributions to Union activities from third countries or from bodies other than those set up under the TFEU
or the Euratom Treaty;
(f) internal assigned revenue referred to in paragraph 3, to the extent that it is ancillary to external assigned revenue
referred to in this paragraph;
(g) revenue from the activities of a competitive nature conducted by the Joint Research Centre (JRC) which consist of any of
the following:
(i) grant and procurement procedures in which the JRC participates;
(ii) activities of the JRC on behalf of third parties;
(iii) activities undertaken under an administrative agreement with other Union institutions or other Commission
departments, in accordance with Article 59, for the provision of technical-scientific services.
3. The following shall constitute internal assigned revenue:
(a) revenue from third parties in respect of goods, services or work supplied at their request;
(b) revenue arising from the repayment, in accordance with Article 101, of amounts wrongly paid;
(43) Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/97 of 7 July 1997 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit
procedure (OJ L 209, 2.8.1997, p. 6).
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 45/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(c) proceeds from the supply of goods, services and works to other departments within an Union institution, or to other
Union institutions or bodies, including refunds by other Union institutions or bodies of mission allowances paid on
their behalf;
(d) insurance payments received;
(e) revenue from lettings and from the sale of buildings and land;
(f) repayments to financial instruments or budgetary guarantees pursuant to Article 212(3), second subparagraph;
(g) revenue arising from subsequent reimbursement of taxes pursuant to Article 27(3), first subparagraph, point (b).
4. Assigned revenue shall be carried over and transferred in accordance with Article 12(4), points (b) and (c), and with
Article 32.
5. A basic act may assign the revenue for which it provides to specific items of expenditure. Unless otherwise specified in
the basic act, such revenue shall constitute internal assigned revenue.
6. The budget shall include lines to accommodate external assigned revenue and internal assigned revenue and shall,
wherever possible, indicate the amount.
Article 22
Structure to accommodate assigned revenue and provision of corresponding appropriations
1. Without prejudice to paragraph 2, first subparagraph, point (c), of this Article and to Article 24, the structure to
accommodate assigned revenue in the budget shall comprise:
(a) in the statement of revenue of each Union institution’s section, a budget line to receive the revenue;
(b) in the statement of expenditure, the remarks, including general remarks, showing which budget lines may receive the
appropriations corresponding to the assigned revenue which are made available;
(c) in the statement of expenditure, an annex, forming an integral part of the budget, setting out all the budget lines for
which internal or external assigned revenue is foreseen and providing information on the estimated amount of such
revenue to be received and the estimated amount of such revenue to be carried over from preceding years for each
budget line.
In the case referred to in the first subparagraph, point (a), a token entry pro memoria shall be made and the estimated
revenue shall be shown for information in the remarks.
2. The appropriations corresponding to assigned revenue shall be made available automatically, both as commitment
appropriations and as payment appropriations, when the revenue has been received by the Union institution, save in any of
the following cases:
(a) in the case provided for in Article 21(2), point (a), for financial contributions from Member States and where the
contribution agreement is expressed in euro, commitment appropriations may be made available upon signature of the
contribution agreement by the Member State;
(b) in the cases provided for in Article 21(2), point (b), and in Article 21(2), point (g)(i) and (iii), the commitment
appropriations shall be made available as soon as the amount receivable has been estimated;
(c) in the case provided for in Article 21(2), point (c), the entry of the amounts in the statement of revenue shall give rise to
the provision, in the statement of expenditure, of commitment and payment appropriations.
Appropriations referred to in the first subparagraph, point (c), of this paragraph shall be implemented in accordance with
Article 20.
3. The estimates of amounts receivable referred to in Article 21(2), points (b) and (g), shall be sent to the accounting
officer for registration.
46/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
Article 23
Contributions from Member States to research programmes
1. The contributions from Member States to the financing of certain supplementary research programmes, referred to in
Article 5 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 609/2014, shall be paid as follows:
(a) seven twelfths of the sum entered in the budget shall be paid by 31 January of the current financial year;
(b) the remaining five twelfths shall be paid by 15 July of the current financial year.
2. Where the budget has not been definitively adopted before the start of a financial year, the contributions provided for
in paragraph 1 shall be based on the sum entered in the budget for the preceding financial year.
3. Any contribution or additional payment owed by Member States to the budget shall be entered in the Commission’s
account or accounts within thirty calendar days of the call for funds.
4. Payments made shall be entered in the account provided for in Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 609/2014 and shall be
subject to the conditions laid down by that Regulation.
Article 24
Assigned revenue resulting from the participation of EFTA States in certain Union programmes
1. The budget structure to accommodate the revenue from the participation of EFTA States in certain Union
programmes shall be as follows:
(a) in the statement of revenue, a budget line with a token entry pro memoria shall be entered to accommodate the full
amount of each EFTA State’s contribution for the financial year;
(b) in the statement of expenditure, an annex, forming an integral part of the budget, shall set out all the budget lines
covering the Union activities in which EFTA States participate, and shall include information on the estimated amount
of the participation of each EFTA State.
2. Under Article 82 of the EEA Agreement, the amounts of the annual participation of EFTA States, as confirmed to the
Commission by the Joint Committee of the European Economic Area in accordance with Article 1(5) of Protocol No 32
annexed to the EEA Agreement, shall give rise to the provision, at the start of the financial year, of the full amounts of the
corresponding commitment appropriations and payment appropriations.
3. The use of the revenue arising from the financial contribution of EFTA States shall be monitored separately.
Article 25
Donations
1. Union institutions may accept any donation made to the Union, such as income from foundations, subsidies, gifts and
bequests.
2. Acceptance of a donation of a value of EUR 50 000 or more which involves a financial charge, including follow-up
costs, exceeding 10 % of the value of the donation made, shall be subject to the authorisation of the European Parliament
and of the Council. The European Parliament and the Council shall act on the matter within two months of receiving
a request for such an authorisation from the Union institutions concerned. If no objection is made within that period, the
Union institutions concerned shall take a final decision regarding the acceptance of the donation. The Union institutions
concerned shall in their request to the European Parliament and to the Council explain the financial charges entailed by the
acceptance of donations made to the Union.
3. Notwithstanding paragraph 2, in exceptional circumstances, the Commission may accept any in-kind donation made
to the Union, irrespective of its value, where such a donation is made for the purposes of humanitarian aid, emergency
support, civil protection or crisis management aid.
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 47/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
The Commission may accept such a donation provided that:
(a) the acceptance is in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and transparency;
(b) it does not give rise to a conflict of interests;
(c) it does not harm the image of the Union;
(d) it does not harm or risk harming the security or public order of the Union or Member States;
(e) the donor is not, at the time of the acceptance, in one of the situations referred to in Articles 138(1) and 143(1) and is
not registered as excluded in the database referred to in Article 144(1). The donor shall submit the declaration referred
to in Article 139.
The authorising officer responsible shall provide information in the annual activity report referred to in Article 74(9) on all
cases where the Commission accepted a donation pursuant to the first subparagraph of this paragraph.
Article 26
Corporate sponsorship
1. ‘Corporate sponsorship’ means an agreement by which a legal person supports in-kind an event or an activity for
promotional or corporate social responsibility purposes.
2. On the basis of specific internal rules, which shall be published on their respective websites, Union institutions and
bodies may exceptionally accept corporate sponsorship provided that:
(a) there is due regard to the principles of non-discrimination, proportionality, equal treatment and transparency at all
stages of the procedure for accepting corporate sponsorship;
(b) it contributes to the positive image of the Union and is directly linked to the core objective of an event or of an activity;
(c) it does neither generate a conflict of interest nor concern exclusively social events;
(d) the event or activity is not exclusively financed through corporate sponsorship;
(e) the service in return for the corporate sponsorship is limited to the public visibility of the trademark or name of the
sponsor;
(f) the sponsor is not, at the time of the sponsorship procedure, in one of the situations referred to in Articles 138(1) and
143(1) and is not registered as excluded in the database referred to in Article 144(1).
3. Where the value of the corporate sponsorship exceeds EUR 5 000, the sponsor shall be listed in a public register that
includes information on the type of event or activity being sponsored.
Article 27
Rules on deductions and exchange rate adjustments
1. The following deductions may be made from payment requests which shall then be passed for payment of the net
amount:
(a) penalties imposed on parties to contracts or beneficiaries;
(b) discounts, refunds and rebates on individual invoices and cost statements;
(c) interest generated by pre-financing payments;
(d) adjustments for amounts unduly paid.
48/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/ojEN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
The adjustments referred to in the first subparagraph, point (d), may be made, by means of direct deduction, against a new
interim payment or payment of a balance to the same payee under the chapter, article and financial year in respect of which
the excess payment was made.
Union accounting rules shall apply to the deductions referred to in the first subparagraph, points (c) and (d).
2. The cost of products or services, provided to the Union, incorporating taxes refunded by Member States pursuant to
Protocol No 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union, annexed to the TEU and to the TFEU, shall be
charged to the budget for the ex-tax amount.
3. The cost of products or services, provided to the Union, incorporating taxes refunded by third countries on the basis
of relevant agreements, may be charged to the budget for any of the following amounts:
(a) the ex-tax amount;
(b) the tax-inclusive amount.
In the case referred to in the first subparagraph, point (b), subsequently reimbursed taxes shall be treated as internal
assigned revenue.
4. Adjustments may be made in respect of exchange differences occurring in budget implementation. The final gain or
loss shall be included in the balance for the financial year.
CHAPTER 6
Principle of specification
Article 28
General provisions
1. Appropriations shall be earmarked for specific purposes by title and chapter. The chapters shall be further subdivided
into articles and items.
2. The Commission and the other Union institutions may transfer appropriations within the budget subject to the
specific conditions laid down in Articles 29 to 32.
Appropriations may only be transferred to budget lines for which the budget has authorised appropriations or which carry
a token entry pro memoria.
The limits referred to in Articles 29, 30 and 31 shall be calculated at the time the request for transfer is made and with
reference to the appropriations provided in the budget, including amending budgets.
The amount to be taken into consideration for the purposes of calculating the limits referred to in Articles 29, 30 and 31
shall be the sum of the transfers to be made on the budget line from which transfers are being made, after adjustment for
earlier transfers made. The amount corresponding to the transfers which are carried out autonomously by the Commission,
or by any other Union institution concerned without a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council, shall not be
taken into consideration.
Proposals for transfers and all information for the European Parliament and for the Council concerning transfers made
under Articles 29, 30 and 31 shall be accompanied by appropriate and detailed supporting documents showing the most
recent information available for the implementation of appropriations and estimates of requirements up to the end of the
financial year, both for the budget lines to which the appropriations are to be transferred and for those from which they are
to be taken.
Article 29
Transfers by Union institutions other than the Commission
1. Any Union institution other than the Commission may, within its own section of the budget, transfer appropriations:
(a) from one title to another up to a maximum of 10 % of the appropriations for the financial year shown on the budget
line from which the transfer is made;
ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj 49/239EN
OJ L, 26.9.2024
(b) from one chapter to another without limit.
2. Without prejudice to paragraph 4 of this Article, three weeks before making a transfer, as referred to in paragraph 1,
the Union institution shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of its intention to do so. In the event that duly
justified objections are raised within that period by either the European Parliament or the Council, the procedure laid down
in Article 31 shall apply.
3. Any Union institution other than the Commission may propose to the European Parliament and to the Council,
within its own section of the budget, transfers from one title to another exceeding the limit referred to in paragraph 1, point
(a), of this Article. Those transfers shall be subject to the procedure laid down in Article 31.
4. Any Union institution other than the Commission may, within its own section of the budget, make transfers within
articles without informing the European Parliament and the Council beforehand.
Article 30
Transfers by the Commission
1. The Commission may, within its own section of the budget, autonomously:
(a) transfer appropriations within each chapter;
(b) with regard to expenditure on staff and administration which is common to several titles, transfer appropriations from
one title to another up to a maximum of 10 % of the appropriations for the financial year shown on the budget line
from which the transfer is made, and up to a maximum of 30 % of the appropriations for the financial year shown on
the budget line to which the transfer is made;
(c) with regard to operational expenditure, transfer appropriations between chapters within the same title up to
a maximum of 10 % of the appropriations for the financial year shown on the budget line from which the transfer is
made;
(d) with regard to research and technological development appropriations implemented by the JRC, within the title of the
budget relating to the ‘Direct research’ policy area, transfer appropriations between chapters of up to a maximum of
15 % of the appropriations on the budget line from which the transfer is made;
(e) with regard to research and technological development, transfer operational appropriations from one title to another,
provided that the appropriations are used for the same purpose;
(f) with regard to operational expenditure of the funds implemented under shared management, with the exception of the
EAGF, transfer appropriations from one title to another, provided that the appropriations concerned are for the same
objective within the meaning of the Regulation establishing the fund concerned or constitute technical assistance
expenditure;
(g) transfer appropriations from the budgetary item of a budgetary guarantee to the budgetary item of another budgetary
guarantee, in the exceptional cases when the provisioned resources in the common provisioning fund of the latter are
insufficient to pay a guarantee call and subject to the subsequent restoring of the amount transferred in accordance with
the procedure set out in Article 215(4).
The expenditure referred to in the first subparagraph, point (b), of this paragraph shall cover, for each policy area, the items
referred to in Article 47(4).
Where the Commission transfers EAGF appropriations pursuant to the first subparagraph after 31 December, it shall take
its decision by 31 January of the following financial year. The Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the
Council within two weeks after its decision on those transfers.
Three weeks before making the transfers referred to in the first subparagraph, point (b), of this paragraph, the Commission
shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of its intention to do so. In the event that duly justified objections are
raised within that period by the European Parliament or by the Council, the procedure laid down in Article 31 shall apply.
50/239 ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2509/oj